 searchers find bodies of wife and three children of jimmie_wallet in wreckage caused by mudslides in la_conchita , calif . discovery brings number of confirmed dead to 10 since hill collapsed , burying about 15 houses and damaging 16 more . gov arnold_schwarzenegger inspects scene , comforts rescue workers and says people have every right to live there , regardless of danger .
 senate begins debate on democratic resolution aimed at withdrawing american combat troops from iraq in 2008 . sens john_mccain , mitch_mcconnell and richard_j_durbin speak . white_house threatens to veto measure even though it is considered unlikely to win final passage . democratic leaders in house scramble on eve of critical test vote in appropriations committee for huge emergency spending bill that also includes timetable for withdrawal in 2008 .
 parishioners of st_albert_the_great_roman_catholic_church in weymouth , mass , stage sleep-in and 24-hour prayer vigil to keep church from closing . roman catholic archbishop sean_p_o'malley announced in may church 's desire to close 82 of 357 churches in state by end of 2004 because of declining attendance and financial problems . st albert 's parishioners have filed lawsuit to keep church open , asserting that church belongs to them , and archdiocese merely holds it in trust for them .
 sec condoleezza_rice calls for france and rest of europe to put aside differences with us and embark on joint effort to bring peace and freedom to arab world and build new iraq . photo with pres jacques_chirac . speech at institute_of_political studies in paris tries to assure audience that bush administration wants to work with united_europe , using ideas and not force . speech in academic setting is centerpiece of europe and mideast trip attempting to move to higher ground on array of issues , after dismissing of ` old europe ' by united_states foreign policy and military officials during runup to iraq war .
 children 's author marc_brown and wife laurie_krasny_brown buy four-story town house on west 11th street for $ 3.95 million and list loft building on jay street in tribeca for $ 15.8 million . former professional bmw racecar driver jeff_tarr jr and wife amy buy $ 6.4 million duplex condominium , designed to resemble french chateau , at 455 central_park_west . florida real estate developer jorge m perez closes on duplex condominium unit in south tower of time_warner_center_on_columbus_circle for $ 4 million and says he has already sold apartment for undisclosed price .
 juan williams article recounts 1993 interview with justice thurgood_marshall , who was naacp 's lead lawyer in brown v board of education case . marshall recalls buildup to brown case . shares his deep feelings of resentment when , as college graduate , he wanted to go to university_of_maryland_law_school , but did not even apply because he knew that it would be waste of time . felt his work in brown helped him balance scales of justice . photo -lrb- special section . education life -rrb- .
 second in series of three articles following eight students in westchester_county , ny , through process of applying to college . focuses on early decision , whereby high school seniors commit themselves to a particular college , and early action requests , which are nonbinding . of eight students interviewed , two applied early decision and two early action . all four have received their answers and remaining four have finished their applications .
 criminal cases against tyco_international 's former top executives takes unusual turn when prosecutors acknowledge in court that company 's auditors , pricewaterhousecoopers , approved many of transactions that are now in question . tyco 's former chief executive , l dennis_kozlowski , and its former chief financial officer , mark_h_swartz , are accused of looting company of hundreds of millions of dollars . kozlowski photo .
 profile of umang_gupta , chairman and chief executive of keynote_systems , based in san_mateo , calif . keynote helps large businesses manage the efficiency of their web sites . gupta comments on acquisition of vividence co , leader in field of online user behavior research . says last four years have been spent restoring nearly $ 20 million in annual revenues lost after dot-com bubble burst .
 a-list stars , movie and music moguls and top hollywood dealmakers buy $ 2,300 tickets to attend benefit in beverly_hills , calif , for sen barack_obama , first-term democratic senator in his first foray to los_angeles as declared presidential candidate . haul is expected to be at least $ 1 million , making it first major event there of 2008 presidential campaign .
 scene from ramadi on election day : sunni arab town sheds 11 months of political isolation as thousands of residents pour into polling stations and cast votes . near total absence of violence in ramadi , where some local tribal and religious authorities are thought to have close ties to insurgency , suggests negotiated truce for day , and that local leaders may be starting to push away from insurgency in favor of political solutions .
 at the movies column . philip_seymour_hoffman discusses role in love liza , written by his brother gordy . jazz trumpeter terence_blanchard discusses triple career as concert and recording artist , music teacher at university_of_southern_california and prolific composer of music scores , including new spike lee movie 25th hour . his photo . george a romero recalls making night of the living dead in 1968 . classic was placed on national film registry in 1999 and romero is subject of retrospective at american museum of the moving image .
 european commission to sue 15 members of european_union for voting to suspend rules that would have forced france and germany to make deep cuts to bring their budget deficits within lawful limits . france and germany flouted those rules , which cap deficits to 3 percent of gross domestic product , saying they risk choking off fragile economic recovery . commission is seeking to overturn vote .
 charlie_hill , accused murderer and admitted airline hijacker , has lived in cuba for 36 years as fugitive of american_justice . hill 's fate and that of other fugitives in cuba like assata_shakur , former joanne_chesimard , is linked to fidel_castro , who is in failing health . they are hoping for castro 's recuperation and for continuation of communist government that has butted heads with washington .
 long island journal column . peter_dilg of baldwin collects and restores antique phonographs and gramophones as well as old wax cylinders and discs . dilg is among handful of acoustic engineers who specialize in recording sound the way thomas_edison did 125 years ago . robert_yeganeh , owner of shoe store chain love my shoes , stages singles event for match.com in which he gives out 48 pairs of shoes , left foot to women , right to men , at zachary_'s_club in east_meadow .
 strive , non-profit group in new_york_city , offers former convicts , welfare recipients and veterans workplace skills and remedial education courses to help them pursure well-paid unionized construction jobs . six-month course is part of overall program of mayor michael_r_bloomberg to widen access to highly coveted jobs . two dozen construction unions have each agreed to reserve 15 percent of their annual apprenticeships for new high school garduates , plus 10 percent for women and 10 percent for veterans .
 editorial observer by helene_cooper says united_states_international aid agency has been asked by sen tom_coburn to cut funding to programs in mexico , honduras , nicaragua and guatemala that seek to educate prostitutes about dangers of hiv infection and importance of use of condoms . says it is hopeful that many of coburn 's fellow republican senators disagree with him and have told usaid administrator andrew_natsios to reconsider .
 senate shows bipartisan support for bill that would expand energy production in gulf_of mexico . consensus may be fragile , and bill , if approved in final vote , would have to be reconciled with different drilling bill approved by house . bill identifies 8.3 million acres for new energy development in gulf . it would create protections for florida 's western coastline and give other gulf_states percentage of royalties that now accrue to government .
 stanford_institute_for_quantitative_study_of_society survey shows average internet user in us spends three hours a day online , with much of that time devoted to work and more than half of it to communications . finds use of internet has displaced tv watching and range of other activities . says internet users watch tv for one hour and 42 minutes a day , compared with national average of two hours .
 iraq re-establishes diplomatic relations with syria after twenty years . syrian min walid al-moallem meets with prime min nuri_al-maliki in baghdad 's green zone . syria and turkey are positioning themselves in cases of major shift in us policy , and also out of fear of political collapse in iraq . 90 iraqis reported killed across country . photo . television comedian walid hassan_jiaaz is shot dead in baghdad . fate of kidnapped_education_ministry employees remains unclear .
 roy_brown , serving 25 years to life for 1991 murder of sabina_kulakowski in aurelius , ny , seeks to have conviction vacated after dna tests link barry bench to slaying . brown started pursuing new murder lead in 2003 when he found witness statements linking kulakowski to bench , whose brother had been victim 's boyfriend . dna tests match sample provided by bench 's daughter katherine_eckstadt . brown sent letter on dna match to bench , who then committed suicide . innocence project assists brown with case . also questions chief evidence of bite marks on kulakowski 's body that were used to convict brown .
 auto sales dropped 2 percent in january from_year_earlier , signaling what many analysts say will be tough year for industry . consumers are expected to benefit from new products , particularly from foreign automakers , and cheaper prices because of competition . ford_motor sales were up 4 percent while general_motors sales fell 2 percent and chrysler sales fell 12 percent .
 two palestinian gunmen attack isolated jewish settlement near embattled city of hebron , israel , killing one israeli and wounding three others . one attacker is killed , other escapes . israeli army engages in extensive roundup of palestinians throughout country . would-be palestinian suicide bomber is killed off coast of gaza . several thousand palestinians rally in gaza_city in support of iraq .
 university of delaware is spending more than $ 12 million to build hotel on its site north of central campus . lodging to open in november . university is developing 126-room lodging as commercial venture through separate profit-making company called blue hen_hotel_llc . shaner_hotel_group_of_state_college , pa , is 25 percent owner in venture . shaner will operate property as courtyard by marriott under franchise agreement with marriott_international .
 companies craving public recognition and customers are vying for rights to name arenas and stadiums after themselves . in fast-growing marketplace , more than half the arenas and stadiums in professional baseball , football , basketball and hockey now bear corporate names . in latest deal , ameriquest_mortgage_co is paying texas_rangers $ 75 million over 30 years to rename their stadium ameriquest field . there are 66 such naming-rights deals with total contract value of $ 3.6 billion , up from three deals worth $ 25 million in 1988 . but market for naming rights reflects undulations of american business . bankruptcies , mergers , stock market tumble and accounting scandals have resulted in fair degree of confusion and re-renaming .
 federal prosecutor stuart_rabner tells jury in newark that hemant_lakhani , british man charged with supporting terrorists , was eager arms merchant who once praised osama bin laden and talked excitedly about using shoulder-to-air missiles to attack 10-15 american jetliners at same time . defense depicts 69-year-old indian-born lakhani as innocent clothing merchant . lakhani was arrested near newark_airport in fbi sting in august 2003 .
 ugandan pres yoweri museveni wins third term in country 's first multiparty elections in quarter_century with 59 percent of vote , against 37 percent for his main challenger kizza_besigye . besigye claims analysis of election data show him ahead by slim margin , with runoff election required . heavily armed soldiers clash with besigye 's supporters outside his campaign headquarters . besigye urges supporters to challenge results but to do so nonviolently .
 article on young artists and writers who discovered eastern end of long_island in 1950 's and ` 60 's . what they saw and felt there informed their plays , novels , paintings and sculptures for decades after . many of the famous artists and writers are gone , but a circle of friends remain who continue to work in ever more developed hamptons . edward_albee is curator of art exhibit some sculpture : albee 's choice at longhouse_reserve in east_hampton .
 new_york democrats hope to elect craig_m_johnson to represent seventh senate district in nassau_county , replacing republican michael_a_l_balboni , now state 's chief of homeland security . johnson 's election would leave democrats within two seats of republican majority in senate , where lt gov david a paterson could cast deciding votes . maureen_o'connell is republican candidate in district , where republicans usually do well . republicans criticize spitzer for actively campaigning for johnson .
 home of dr paul_gachet , who was immortalized in vincent_van_gogh_portrait , is opened to public in france in celebration of 150th anniversary of the artist 's birth . paavo_jarvi , principal conductor and music director of cincinnati_symphony_orchestra , signs four-year contract extension . new school university jazz program honors guitarist les paul , pianist jay_mcshann and blue note records president bruce_lundvall .
 sen john_kerry is photographed unflatteringly on tour of space shuttle at cape_canaveral , wearing clean environment suit . photo . incident recalls photo of michael_dukakis wearing helmet in talk in 1988 , which did not enhance his presidential prospects . kerry photo . teresa_heinz_kerry generates lots of comment by telling reporter from conservative newspapers to ` shove it ' . ann_richards , former texas governor , defends heinz_kerry 's remark .
 atlantis beach club in cape may county , nj , vows to fight appeals court ruling striking down fees it wants for access to its atlantic_ocean_beach : $ 15,000 for lifetime membership or $ 700 for eight badges over one summer . rejects as too low the schedule of ` reasonable fees ' set by state_environmental_department . environmentalists and other advocates of ` open beaches ' in state are elated , noting that coast is becoming increasingly privatized .
 one of hottest exports from japan is computer engineers . japan 's once vaunted electronics industry has downsized to survive global competition , and is inadvertently setting off brain drain . thousands of japanese engineers and other industry professionals have gone to taiwan , south_korea and china to seek work at aggressive , fast-growing companies that want to use japanese technological expertise . recent export of job seekers is sign of just how much japan has changed during decade of increased competition , corporate belt-tightening and end of lifetime job guarantees . china and southeast asian countries like singapore have begun hiring japanese en masse to acquire their know how . japanese migrants are finding themselves welcomed with open arms and generous pay packages . taiwan has spent $ 20 million each year since 2003 to recruit foreign engineers .
 editorial praises center for governmental research and empire center for new_york state policy for posting on web details of how as much as $ 1 billion a year has been spent on pet projects approved by new_york gov george_pataki , senate majority leader joseph_bruno and assembly speaker sheldon_silver .
 secretary of state_colin_l_powell opens brief visit to brazil by saying bush administration 's relations with latin_america and caribbean nations is improving . pres luiz_inacio_lula_da_silva has visited white_house twice since his election in 2002 . powell says focus of his trip is growing role brazil has been playing in region .
 ambitious discrimination lawsuit against wal-mart , nation 's biggest employer , accuses it of favoring men over women in promotions and pay . plaintiffs ' lawyers want lawsuit to include all 700,000 women who worked at wal-mart from 1996 to 2001 , which would make it by far largest employment discrimination class action in american history . lawsuit , filed in 2001 in federal court in san_francisco , focuses largely on one statistic compiled by plaintiffs : in 2001 women made up 65 percent of wal-mart ` s hourly employees but only 35 percent of its managers . suit also claims wide disparities in pay .
 eagle river , wis , hosts 43rd annual world championship snowmobile derby . more than 200 competitors come for four days of racing . carl_elaison of nearby saynor , wis , put motor on toboggan to fashion first snowmobile in 1920 's and snowmobiles have become part of region 's culture . innkeepers john and betty_alward founded snowmobile derby with friend walter_goldsworthy in 1964 , in effort to improve winter business in summer haven .
 eleven elected and appointed officials in monmouth_county , nj , including three mayors , are arrested on federal corruption or money laundering charges growing out of sting operation run by fbi and spanning more than four years . federal criminal complaints show that all of officials were caught on videotape or audiotape taking bribes of up to $ 5,000 at single meeting , and as as little as $ 1,000 , from contractor who wanted officials to steer public contracts , which did not require public bidding , to him . contractor cooperates with fbi agents . at least one elected official allegedly accepted free paving job on his driveway , instead of money , in return for promise to help contractor get work in asbury_park . among those arrested are hazlet mayor paul_coughlin , middletown committeeman raymond_o'grady , keyport mayor john_j_merla , keyport councilman robert_l_hyer , and west_long_branch mayor paul_zambrano .
 jack_curry baseball analysis contends that boston_red_sox and texas_rangers , who have been talking about trading red sox outfielder manny_ramirez to texas for shortstop alex_rodriguez , and dealing boston shortstop nomar_garciaparra , must follow through with trade now , or players involved could be very unhappy staying on their current teams .
 iver_peterson on politics column on possibility that new jersey gov james_mcgreevey 's ability to raise funds could be undermined by recent events . mcgreevey 's long-time acquaintance and fund-raiser david d ' amiano has been indicted on charges of extorting campaign contributions and developer charles_kushner , one of mcgreevey 's top fund-raisers , has been accused of hiring prostitutes to blackmail his brother-in-law .
 house adopts $ 15 billion initiative to combat aids worldwide after conservatives win requirement that at least one-third of money promotes sexual abstinence before marriage . vote is 375 to 41 . proposal would almost triple federal spending over five years for fighting aids overseas , particularly in africa . it received surprise endorsement from pres bush in his state of union speech . senate officials say they will consider similar proposal as early as next week .
 eastern quarter of downtown los_angeles is largest concentration of homelessness in country . thousands of people in 50 blocks known as skid row live on sidewalks in tents and cardbord shacks . thousands more sleep on mission cots , in back seats of cars and in flophouses . city has 41,000 homeless people , and number is rising . police chief william_j_bratton has instituted sweeps against so-called quality-of-life criminals , prompting american_civil_liberties_union to sue city , arguing that it is rousting sidewalk sleepers without giving them beds . city has agreed to pay nearly $ 170,000 to dozens of homeless people who were caught up in sweeps and then then filed suit , charging improper arrest . experts say homelessness is on rise across country . los_angeles , with half the population of new_york , has more people on streets than new_york has in its shelters . new_york will spend $ 640 million on homeless services this year , while los anagles will spend $ 50 million .
 patrick e tyler analysis holds that pres bush 's decision to go all out to win second united_nations_security_council endorsement to wage war on iraq was made primarily to help prime min tony_blair , who has come under fire in britain , and that it risks diplomatic embarrassment in face of determined opposition of france , germany and russia . says that while bush may not need legal authority to attack iraq , he may need moral authority that comes with having shown that he has done everything within reason to test saddam_hussein 's willingness to disarm and to settle all questions of what happened to chemical and biological agents that have not been accounted for .
 travelers must wait on long lines at some airports on day before thanksgiving , one of busiest travel days of year , as skies become overcast over northeast and snow falls in midwest . air travel over weekend is expected to hit four-year record . air fares are up 2.6 percent from 2003 . morale is low among employees at nation 's struggling carriers .
 islamic government of sudan signs peace agreement with christian_rebel_group in south that calls for end to one of africa 's fiercest and longest-running civil wars . sudanese refugees -- many of whom have known nothing but war in their homeland -- dance with glee as sudan vice pres ali osman taha and rebel leadeer john_garang initial agreement in nairobi , kenya . celebration is tempered by fact that war continues in other parts of sudan . agreement does not cover western darfur region , where clashes involve different rebels .
 private january meeting in berlin between us and north korean envoys , christopher_r_hill and kim_kye-gwan , was critical in resuscitating talks about north_korea 's nuclear weapons program . talks were first privately held discussions outside framework of six-nation negotiations including japan , russia , china and south_korea . private meeting was sort once forbidden by bush administration , but two negotiators used it to hash out differences .
 second trial in long-running battle between larry_a_silverstein and insurers over how much money will be available for rebuilding world trade center opens with developer 's lawyer bernard_nussbaum saying that nine companies have failed to live up to their obligations by refusing to pay $ 2.2 billion . lawyers for insurers say attack on trade center was result of one coordinated terrorist attack , and silverstein is entitled to one payment of no more than $ 1.1 billion .
 anthony_tommasini critic 's notebook on several current new_york stagings of la boheme , presenting puccini 's parisian bohemians in variety of settings . new_york_city opera presents james_robinson 's production set during world war i , metropolitan opera has franco_zeffirelli 's grand staging , baz_luhrmann 's musical continues on broadway and jonathan_larson 's rent offers rock-musical version .
 dept of homeland security will test latest high-tech campaign to secure us borders on 28-mile stretch of desert near tucson . boeing will be contractor charged with lining up systems to be used by border patrol . project will cost $ 2 billion over six years and will eventually cover entire 6,000 miles of mexican and canadian borders .
 pres bush spends his days making phone calls about possible war with iraq , but his household has settled into eerie calm . he and wife laura have spent last two weeks virtually housebound , with travel plans postponed and most dinners at home , either alone or with small groups of friends from texas . there are no plans on schedule , not even for trip to bush ranch in texas .
 liz_seymour article on trends evident at international home furnishings market in high point , nc . notes price war is raging between importers and domestic producers . imports represented $ 14.2 billion of industry 's $ 44 billion sales in wholesale furniture in 2002 . china 's furniture exports to us alone increased 37 percent between 2001 and 2002 .
 muslim world erupts in anger over caricatures of prophet muhammad published in europe while bush administration offers protesters support , saying it finds cartoons offensive . streets in palestinian regions and in egypt , turkey , pakistan , iraq , iran , indonesia and malaysia are filled with demonstrators calling for boycotts of european goods and burning flag of denmark , where cartoons first appeared .
 pres bush 's plan to change definition of who is eligible for overtime pay runs into serious roadblock in congress . senate , in rare democratic victory , votes to block white_house from issuing new rules . vote is 54 to 45 , with six republicans joining 48 democrats . vote seen as rebuke to administration , but matter is far from settled . blocked amendment is part of larger spending bill that has been passed by house .
 japan commits to sending up to 600 ground troops to join american-led forces in iraq . mission , japan 's most ambitious military operation since world war ii , would last from six months to year . prime min junichiro_koizumi says japan can no longer only pay money and must play more active role internationally , as well as fulfill commitment to us .
 memorandum written by vice adm_lowell_e_jacoby , defense intelligence agency director , says that two defense dept intelligence officials reported observing brutal treatment of iraqi insurgents captured in baghdad last june , several weeks after disclosures of abuses at abu_ghraib_prison created worldwide uproar . memorandum says that when two members of his agency objected to treatment , they were threatened and told to keep quiet by other military interrogators .
 writers_guild_of_america is accused of not doing enough to find rightful owners of levies collected by foreign government on home video rentals and sales for compensation of copyright holders . $ 6 million of such revenue has been classified as undeliverable as of april , and as much as 40 percent of $ 18 million then held in trust is expected to eventually fall into same category . writers who are due money , or whose estates are , include such famous people as tom_clancy , ben_hecht , preston_sturges , vladimir_nabokov , paul_gallico and charles_bukowski . writer-director william_richert has filed lawsuit seeking class-action status and contending that union has fraudulently collected and kept money intended for others . guild officials say buildup of undeliverable funds reflects surge in collections and unintended delay in process of finding those due it .
 movement is under way to evict 70-year-old homeless cuban-american man from tiny_island few hundred yards from mainland miami that he has claimed as his own for last four years . island is one of five created decades ago with dredge spoils from construction of marina . jose montaner lives in makeshift home with his dog . city officials are sympathetic to his plight , but say he has no right to inhabit public land .
 bureau of labor statistics reports work force grew by only 57,000 jobs in nov , one third of what forecasters projected . unemployment rate fell to 5.9 percent from 6 percent in oct . bush administration reacts cautiously . labor sec elaine l chao notes many economic indicators point toward continued job growth well into 2004 . pres bush says economy is getting stronger , speech . democratic presidential candidates are scornful . job market graphs .
 philip_morris_usa 's is moving its headquarters from new_york_city to historic building in tobacco-friendly richmond , va . officials say move will save about $ 60 million a year and is unrelated new_york 's new smoking restrictions or recent increase in its cigarette tax . new headquarters , which was designed for reynolds metals by gordon_bunshaft , is listed on national register of historic places .
 dejection around united_nation 's manhattan headquarters is lifting as organization again finds itself at center of world events after year in which it was disparaged by bush administration as irrelevant , excluded from political transition in iraq and rocked by aug bombing of its baghdad headquarters . under sec gen shashi tharoor traces recovery to jan_19 meeting at which united_states_and_iraqi_governing_council asked un to chart iraq 's political future . confrontational experience of past year has bred wariness into un as it steps back into iraqi crisis .
 democrats seize on iraq as central issue in midterm elections , three weeks before election day . in debates and in speeches , democratic candidates pummel republicans with accusations of failed war and denounce them for supporting pres bush . they are spotlighting their opposition rather than avoiding confrontation on issue as they did in 2002 and 2004 . republicans , exhorted by white_house just four months ago to embrace war as critical to antiterrorism fight , now barely mention iraq on campaign trail or in their television advertisements . republican strategist mark_campbell concedes that environment for republican candidates is eroding as iraq war gets more unpopular . even pres bush has largely dropped his call of ` stay the course ' for more nuanced promise of flexibility .
 100th american international toy fair , nation 's largest trade show for toys , to open on february 16 at javits_center , nyc . will be last of traditional extravaganzas that have crammed year 's worth of hoopla and ballyhoo into single show . next time around , event will for first time be split into two separate annual shows : one for mass-market buyers and one for smaller specialty retailers .
 new books by two of winston_churchill 's grandchildren to be published in america next week . winston s churchill is editor of never give in ! the best of winston_churchill 's speeches and celia_sandys is author of chasing churchill : the travels of winston_churchill . library of congress lists 16 books published this year with ` churchill ' in title .
 article on harriet_jacobs , slave born in edenton , nc , in 1813 who wrote autobigraphy , incidents in the life of a slave girl , and jean_fagan_yellin , whose biography , harriet_jacobs : a life , has won annual frederick_douglass book prize . yellin , distinguished professor emerita at pace_university , comments on research she conducted and documents she uncovered to show that jacobs ' book was not fiction .
 planners of $ 1 billion bank_of_american_building at 1 bryant_park , designed by cook_+_fox architects with durst_organization as developer , expect it to be first skyscraper to earn top environmental rating from coalition of building industry leaders when it opens in 2008 . tower is among 15 projects highlighted in exhibition on ` green ' architecture at skyscraper museum .
 ted_johnson , who helped new_england patriots win three super bowls before retiring in 2005 , is among growing number of former players questioning whether their cognitive problems are related to concussions sustained and treatment received as players . johnson 's neurologist dr robert_cantu says that he is convinced that johnson 's head injuries while playing football have caused his depression and cognitive impairment . johnson says his decline began with august 2002 concussion . says he sustained another concussion four days later when patriots coach bill_belichick submitted him to on-field contact . head injury experts have grown increasingly confident that repeated concussions , particularly those sustained only days apart , have additive , dangerous affects .
 pres bush , speaking in krakow , poland , affirms his commitment to half-century relationship between europe and us , but indicates that he expects traditional allies that opposed him in war on iraq , like germany and france , to conform to an american vision of shared future . praises poland , which has steadfastly supported invasion of iraq , as good citizen of europe and good friend of us . earlier , bush and his wife , laura , tour nazi concentration camps at auschwitz and birkenau . they later fly on to st_petersburg , russia , which is celebrating its 300th anniversary , and join pres vladimir_putin and other world leaders for dinner at peterhof palace outside city .
 thomas_coleman , former undercover narcotics agent whose testimony led to drug convictions of 38 people in tulia , texas , is indicted on three felony perjury charges involving testimony on whether four black men convicted in case should be freed . counts are not directly related to tulia arrests but damage his credibility in 1998 arrest of almost ten percent of panhandle town 's black population .
 cuban cultural center in new_york_city , arts group that usually sponsors exhibits and concerts , adopts felix_varela independent library in las_tunas , cuba , which , like some 100 others founded since 1998 , offers cubans alternative to official media or state-run libraries . library will carry books and magazines from around world considered taboo by castro regime . photos . about 11 independent librarians in cuba were among 75 dissidents arrested two years ago and sentenced to prison . center joins demands for their release .
 iraqi interim prime min ayad_allawi , appearing in new_york and washington with pres bush , expresses optimism , insisting that 14 or 15 of iraq 's 18 provinces are ` completely safe ' . sec of state_colin_l_powell says elections look feasible in 15 provinces , but acknowledges sunni triangle is problem . forging more widely supported government is crucial next step . national assembly elections next january have taken on huge symbolic importance .
 article on continuing dispute between general_motors and inventor and subcontractor jack_evans , who claims that company stole his design for cooling system for corvette and then attempted to drive him out of business . gm engineer john_juriga has admitted he faked memo that was linchpin of company 's defense in case in which evans sought $ 612 million in damages . superior court judge_robert_mcweeny has ruled in favor of company and evans has filed appeal .
 harlem hellfighters of world war ii , 369th infantry of new_york_national_guard , holds annual father 's day picnic at campgrounds in cheshire , conn , but attendees are down to 754 , from more than 2,000 veterans few years ago . photos . retired brig gen sam_phillips notes efforts to extend invitations to rest of harlem community .
 new_york_stock_exchange_board discloses that its chairman richard_a_grasso will receive lump-sum payments totaling $ 140 million in accrued savings and incentives , in addition to base salary of $ 1.4 million and bonus of at least $ 1 million . disclosure of compensation -- first in exchange 's 200-year history -- raises new questions about size of grasso 's pay and guaranteed rate of return that investor watchdogs say exchange has applied to his deferred compensation . corporate governance experts say big payout is highly unusual for head of regulatory body .
 pilot pen tennis tournament and buick championship , former greater hartford open golf tournament , team up for events this year and next . tournament runs from august 26 to 29 . both events share common sponsor , michelob_ultra , which is promoting joint ticket package for tennis tournament 's title match on august 28 and final round of buick tournament on august 29 .
 long island journal column . lynn_krominga and amnon_shiboleth comment on $ 2 million renovation_of_meadowcroft , estate on quantuck_bay in quiogue designed by wilson_eyre , that they are completing just in time for its 100th birthday . evangelists and brothers-in-law rev jimmy_jack and rev robert_lloyd break ground on $ 2 million freedom chapel to replace storefront assemblies of god church in amityville .
 rising price of milk , fuel and real estate is helping to make rate of inflation in new_york_city highest in country . milk has topped $ 4 a gallon around city , while premium gas can cost nearly $ 3 a gallon . average apartment price in manhattan is about $ 1 million , double what it was 10 years ago . inflation in region jumped 1.1 percent in march and 0.3 percent in april , biggest one-year jump in 11 years . most economists say rising prices are sign of healthy economy . but small-business owners say high prices are narrowing their profit margins . milk , which is foundation or additive in many products , causes price of many items , like coffee , cheese and bread , to rise .
 echostar will be hard put to continue to outperform directv way it has for last_18_months in wake of rupert_murdoch_'s_news_corp 's decision to acquire general_motors ' hughes electronics and control of directv satellite-television company . as cable television industry finally begins to deliver on promise of its long-lamanted digital upgrades and as directv finally appears to be in hands of aggressive and capable media operators , echostar and its chairman charles_w_ergen appear to face biggest challenges in years .
 bipartisan congressional report documents hundreds of contacts between lobbyist jack_abramoff and white_house officials , including at least 10 direct contacts between abramoff and karl rove , president 's chief political strategist . report is based on email messages and other records from 2001 to 2004 subpoenaed from abramoff 's lobbying firm . rove describes abramoff as casual acquaintance , but records show rove and his aides sought his help in getting seats at sporting events .
 canadians are losing confidence in their public health system . prime min paul_martin has promised to fix it by trimming waiting lines for tests , treatment and elective surgery . 2002 report showed numbers of doctors decreasing especially in rural areas . 136 communities with total of one million people in ontario lack enough doctors . canadian medical association estimates country needs 2,500 new doctors per year and is producing only 2,000 .
 art basel fair opens in switzerland . is one of most anticipated contemporary art fairs every year . features pop art , figurative painting , installation pieces , contemporary chinese art and works by artists like richard_prince , cindy_sherman , tony_oursler , takashi_murakami , john_currin , ed_ruscha and dinos and jake_chapman . highlight is 13-foot painting by james_rosenquist commemorating 50th anniversary of signing of declaration of human rights by eleanor_roosevelt .
 article on plan by us_navy to sell mitchel field area housing complexes in east_meadow and east_garden_city , long_island , to private developer by october 2004 and impact sale is likely to have on military families . nearly 400 active-duty military personnel and their families -- 1,200 in all -- will be forced onto private rental market in nassau and suffolk counties and queens . navy officials contend virtually all military families stationed on long_island will find suitable , affordable housing in area .
 insurgents carry out string of armed assaults and suicide bombings in central iraq , killing at least dozen iraqi soldiers and police and five civilians . bulgarian min nikolai_svinarov says bulgarian soldier killed in southern iraq appears to have been hit from vicinity of americans in area . demands investigation . that incident happened on same day as us soldiers at checkpoint fired on car carrying freed italian hostage giulianoa_sgrena . italian intelligence officer was killed . pentagon repeats that car was going at high speed and did not respond to warnings , which sgrena denies .
 bob_herbert op-ed column welcomes reopening of case of murder of quintin_moss , st louis drug dealer , in 1980 , for which larry_griffin was executed in 1995 . discusses evidence that griffin , who did plead guilty to another murder , did not kill moss and would almost certainly be acquitted were he tried today . quotes jennifer_joyce , st louis circuit attorney who has officially reopened case .
 article on commack , long_island , whose school district is only one in state whose salary and benefit packages for superintendents exceed $ 300,000 a year . school board president mary_jo_masciello defends high pay , noting that district is in top three on long_island in proportion of students who earn regents diploma .
 fight for nasiriya , strategic_southern_iraqi_city that commands two major river crossings on road to baghdad , described . campaign expected to last hours stretched into days of kind of conflict that may be portent of worse urban combat to come . at least 18 american soldiers and marines died in fight , roughly third of american losses to date . scores more were hurt , at least five captured and at least seven remain missing . american forces fought 18 or 20 hours a day , sometimes block-to-block , sometimes against iraqi irregulars in civilian clothes . aerial photos . map . chronology of events .
 gov jon s corzine of new jersey acknowledges that he gave gifts to carla_katz , former companion and president of communication workers of america local 1034 , beside previously disclosed forgiveness of $ 470,000 mortgage . revelation comes as governor is trying to persuade 35,000 state workers to accept contract proposal that includes significant concessions . katz opposes agreement and has antagonized fellow union leaders who negotiated pact .
 article on skyrocketing tax appraisals on homes along connecticut 's waterfront , whose values have doubled and tripled in past few years . house with water view in madison , for example , appraised at $ 416,428 in 2001 , was revalued in 2002 to $ 882,600 , with property taxes expected to rise from $ 8,077 to $ 11,800 . waterfront home in stonington increased to more than $ 1.3 million in 2002 tax revaluation , up from $ 566,800 in 2001 . other examples given .
 sen olympia_j_snowe , republican of maine , says it has not been easy to take stand against her president and her party 's leadership in senate over size of proposed tax cut . pres bush is seeking $ 726 billion in tax cuts over 10 years , but snowe , influential moderate and pivotal vote on senate_finance_committee , says $ 350 billion is as far as she will go , fearing huge budget deficits in future . decision by snowe , along with handful of other moderate republicans in senate , to balk at size of original tax cut proposal has tied republican congress in knots . her vote will be crucial when senate_finance_committee takes up tax cut legislation .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column charges that pres bush is acquiescing in first genocide of 21st century , in darfur . says us should contribute money to african_union_security_force , push for expanded force , impose no-fly zone and enact legislation to pressure sudan . also calls for bush and sec gen kofi_annan to name special envoy to negotiate with tribal sheiks .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column urges spain to reconsider threat to withdraw troops from iraq in wake of madrid terrorist bombings unless united_nations assumes control of occupation forces , warning move will gladden terrorists and make every democracy more endangered . sees bombings , just before spanish elections , as islamist terrorists ' first attempt to hijack democratic election in western_europe . warns withdrawal will spur terrorists to try tactic to tilt elections in europe and united_states .
 article on comeback of a cats , unique class of wooden sail boats popular in the 1920 's and built for racing on barnegat_bay , nj . only seven boats were built and by 1970 's only four remained , all of them barely seaworthy . role of nelson_hartranft , 73 , peter_kellogg , 63 , and other enthusiasts and boatbuilders in reviving a cats and seeking to persuade younger sailors to join them described .
 opec , facing looming possibility of war in iraq and continued shortfall of oil exports from venezuela , is expected to announce at its meeting in vienna that it will continue to supply as much oil as markets needs , essentially affirmation of what it has been doing for months , although with limited success . most of 10 voting opec members are pumping as much oil as possible , but prices have stayed stubbornly high . crude oil for april delivery falls 51 cents , to $ 37.27 per barrel in new_york .
 southwest_airlines customer communications manager fred_taylor jr spends his work days finding out how southwest has disappointed customers and then firing off homespun letters of apology . taylor composes about 180 letters a year explaining what went wrong on particular flights . letters go to all affected passengers , numbering about 20,000 per year . other airlines are also institutionalizing apologies after spate of service disruptions .
 small business administration 's primary loan program for small businesses has been cut dramatically as result of budget cuts at agency . since 2001 , agency 's budget has been sliced nearly in half , to $ 464 million in proposed 2008 budget . staff cuts have been almost as deep , with agency losing 31 percent of its work force . agency has cut funding for loan program and restored earlier , more cost fee structure for borrowers . borrower pays minimum of $ 2,000 in upfront fees for smaller loans up to $ 150,000 , rise from $ 1,000 before . fee is now 3 percent , up from 2.5 percent , for loans up to $ 700,000 . fee remains unchanged at 3.5 percent for loans over $ 700,000 .
 ted c fishman article on possibility that china may eventually make good $ 6,000 car for united_states market . notes most big international automakers are building vehicles in china , where it still costs more to make car than in west . holds china must put in place hyperefficient industrial infrastructure before it can export cars that will bust open low end of us market .
 carrier corp , manufacturing mainstay of syracuse since depression , stuns community with plan to close two air-conditioning factories and move operations to asia and south , at cost of 1,200 jobs . photo . 1,600 jobs will remain in upstate_new_york , mostly in research and development . syracuse area has already lost nearly 10,000 factory jobs since 2000 . company says more than 80 percent of container makers who buy carrier 's refrigeration units are in asia , so those units will be made in singapore . other manufacturing will be consolidated at plants in china and stone mountain , georgia .
 count michel_de_rochambeau will play host at his chateau in thore-la-rochette , france , at festival to celebrate 200th anniversary of death of jean_baptiste_donatien_de_vimeur , count of rochambeau , french military strategist and fellow-in-arms of george washington at battle_of_yorktown . current count , direct descendant , sees himself as representative of trans-atlantic relations .
 many indians who migrated to america 's silicon_valley and its suburban good life are returning to india . are drawn back by booming economy , in which outsourcing is playing crucial role , and money to buy lifestyle they had in america . there are estimated 35,000 ` returned nonresident indians ' in high-tech hub of bangalore . liberalization of india 's state-run economy over last 13 years has spawned suburban culture that is enabling india to compete for its americanized best and brightest .
 electrical contractor kurt_c_claywell discusses gifts he lavished on connecticut governor john_g_rowland while he was in office to maintain relationship in sworn affidavit that ethics committee will use to determine whether or not to impeach rowland . lawyers for rowland have complained that they have not had full access to affidavit , in which claywell also contends that state contracts he received during rowland 's terms constituted 70 to 80 percent of his business .
 international panel will publish recommendations on how to update united_nations for 21st century challenges . report is said to recommend expansion of security council to 24 members , with six each from americas , africa , asia and europe , suggesting two different options for implementation , neither of which extends veto power beyond five existing permanent members . changes to security council must be approved by two-thirds of general_assembly 's 191 members . debate is expected to be intense .
 developer frank_farricker , democratic candidate for connecticut_state_senate , is campaigning with emphasis on need for affordable housing . but in brooklyn , tenants in buildings he is developing say he is eviscerating rent protections for middle - and working-class people , using phony eviction applications to demolish buildings . kathleen_m_sloane , broker at brown_harris_stevens , buys duplex_penthouse at 823 park avenue for $ 30 million , at or close to record price on park avenue . steve case , owner of exclusive resorts , sells nine condominiums at trump_international_hotel and tower for about $ 2 million apiece .
 article on four-member team of students from staples high school in westport , conn , that won $ 20,000 in scholarships by developing effective solution to social security problem . team was competing against 128 other high school teams from new_york , new jersey and fairfield_county , conn , in moody 's mega math challenge , sponsored by society for industrial and applied mathematics and moody_'s_foundation .
 news analysis of questions raised by announcement that cerberus_capital_management will buy chrysler nine years after its failed merger with daimler-benz . at issue : can private equity investors fix chrysler for good , and can they avoid confrontation with united_automobile_workers_union . cerberus is taking on chrysler 's $ 18 billion obligation for health care and pensions for employees and retirees . any effort to sharply reduce these perks will take on added importance in two months , when union and detroit automakers open talks on new national contract . for now , uaw is supporting deal , but that support may dwindle as company and union start discussing specifics . uaw has continued to make gains in wages and benefits in recent decades , even as tens of thousands of jobs have been eliminated . photos . timeline of chrysler 's tumultuous swings in fortune over last dozen years .
 new_york_city health_comr_thomas_r_frieden_fires_bureau_of day care_director_donald_nolte after learning that two city inspectors had visited day care center in forest hills , queens , just hour before matthew_perilli , baby who died , was found unconscious there . orders reorganization of bureau . says inspectors were unqualified and never saw 7-month-old baby who died . city officials say that other children piled toys on top of baby , suffocating or crushing him . frieden says heather_zlotsheuer , day care operator , violated city and state laws by watching as many as 12 children at once by herself .
 article on our towns for sar-e-pol , nonpartisan group of celebrities and business owners in litchfield , conn , which is working through save the children to provide aid for war-weary inhabitants of sar-e-pol province in northern afghanistan . group 's first organized fund-raiser will feature local luminaries , including mia_farrow , arthur_miller , milos_forman and frank_mccourt , who will introduce films at film forum at recently renovated bank street theater in new milford .
 vice pres dick_cheney speaks publicly today for first time since start of war , and after widespread criticism that he had oversold ease with which coalition forces would prevail . addressing american_society of newspaper editors conference , cheney tries not to sound boastful , while praising defense sec donald_rumsfeld and top military commanders as fall of baghdad appears imminent . disdains idea of giving united_nations , france , germany and russia pivotal role in rebuilding iraq . role as key adviser to pres bush discussed .
 home sec david_blunkett , who is blind , began affair with kimberly_quinn , married publisher of spectator magazine , in 2001 . she gave birth to son , william , whom blunkett saw regularly until aug 2004 , when his affair with quinn collapsed . blunkett claims boy is his son . quinn , 44 , is seven months pregnant with second child . prime min tony_blair says politicians have right to private lives . blunkett 's cabinet colleagues have rallied around him , but his future looks uncertain .
 interior of old emporium building in san_francisco will be gutted in $ 380 million proejct that will join it with its neighbor san_francisco shopping center , creating one of largest indoor malls in us . real estate companies forest city enterprises and westfield_america hope to break groun on project this fall . emporium building was shuttered in 1999 .
 white_house responds cautiously to sen john_warner 's remark that situation in iraq was ` drifting sideways ' . spokeswoman for pres bush stops short of saying outright that he disagrees with assessment . carefully worded response underscores delicate situation that warner has created for white_house just one month before election in which bush has been trying to shift national debate from war in iraq to broader war on terror .
 yankees beat red_sox in game 7 of american league championship series after aaron_boone hits home run in 11th inning . 6-5 victory will send yankees to world series for 39th time since they bought babe ruth from red_sox in 1920 . yankees manager joe_torre brings in relief pitcher mariano_rivera in ninth inning , and leaves him in for three innings . rivera gives up two hits over three shutout innings , earning most valuable player award for series . boone , who has struggled for months , was not in starting lineup . yankees starting pitcher roger_clemens gives up four runs on six hits . starters mike_mussina and david_wells appear in relief before rivera takes over .
 palestinian pres mahmoud abbas and israeli prime min ehud olmert meet for two and a half hours in jerusalem . aides say that while there is little concrete progress to report , more meetings will follow , even if , as expected , abbas 's fatah movement joins islamist hamas in palestinian unity government . olmert tells abbas that israel will not cooperate with such a government . says israel will also not extend cease-fire to west bank until rocket attacks on israel from gaza_cease .
 sam_roberts reviews recent books about new_york_city : rubble : unearthing the history of demolition by jeff_byles , on the town : one hundred years of spectacle in times square by marshall_berman , birds of central park by carl_vornberger and club george : the diary of a central park bird-watcher by bob_levy . list .
 nationwide demonstrations on behalf of immigration reform originated with february meeting in riverside , calif , attended by some 600 latino immigrant advocates from across country . those who attended spread word through grass-roots efforts to labor groups and clergy , setting stage for string of major demonstrations in march , with eye toward ` day without an immigrant ' on may 1 , international workers day .
 abc 's world news is posing serious challenge to nbc 's nightly news . abc 's rating surge highlights ascent of veteran newsman charles_gibson among news anchors . gibson was earlier passed over for anchor job , which went to two much younger journalists , making his current popularity more striking . nbc executives say that network plans to replace nightly news executive producer john_reiss . three network newscasts continue to attract collective audience of 25 million viewers most nights . gibson 's progress in closing gap with nbc 's brian_williams went largely unnoticed in initial torrent of attention accompanying arrival of new cbs evening news anchor katie_couric , whose ratings remain distant third .
 anne_raver article on restoration of greenwood_gardens in short_hills , new jersey , on estate near south_mountain that was owned by father of peter_blanchard . photos . garden conservancy has set up team under louis_bauer to turn estate into work-in-progress model for public education . history of estate and its elaborate gardens recalled .
 federal , state and local law enforcement agencies break two major drug-trafficking rings that smuggled cocaine from mexico to new_york . multiple drug raids lead to seizure of millions of dollars in cash and drugs on lond_island and discovery of tombstones from mexico filled with cocaine at brooklyn_warehouse . 15 people have been arrested including correction officer and former teacher .
 porter j goss resigns under pressure as cia director , ending stormy 19-month tenure marked by plummeting morale at agency and turf battles within government . pres bush is expected to name gen michael_hayden , deputy to national intellience director john_negroponte , as goss successor . nomination would bring close senate questioning of hayden 's role in overseeing national_security_agency 's domestic eavesdropping . hayden strongly defends program . bush appears with goss at white_house . departure also comes amid probe of cia official kyle_foggo . timeline of cia leadership over last ten years .
 mcdonald_'s_corp is cooperating with china 's large state-controlled union , all-china federation of trade unions , to allow formation of more unions in its 750 outlets in china . is working with union officials to help establish union at its stores in southern guangdong_province . announcement comes nearly two weeks after state-controlled newspaper in guangdong reported that some mcdonald_'s , kfc and pizza hut restaurants in guangdong were violating law by paying employees less than minimum wage and denying some workers full-time benefits . mcdonald_'s and yum_brands , which operates kfc and pizza hut , say they obey law . mcdonald 's is investigating allegations .
 advocacy group for relatives of sept 11 terrorist attack victims blames pres bush and house republicans for failure of congress to enact recommendations of sept 11 commission and overhaul intelligence agencies . photo . statement aimed at voters also singles out speaker dennis_hastert and five other republicans and charges bush never took time from his campaign to seek bill through . compromise efforts are at standstill .
 ten-member american special operation team and 400 kurds take on as many as 2,000 iraqi soldiers outside khazir with help of american warplanes in heaviest fighting in northern iraq since war began . iraqi soldiers led by three tanks threaten to take back strategic bridge leading to mosul from which they pulled back on april 3 . us soldiers ' primary function is to guide airstrikes from ground , which removes them from fighting at close quarters .
 valerie_wilson , cia agent at center of i lewis_libby jr trial , and her husband , joseph_wilson , are leaving washington for santa_fe , nm . pain of losing once-promising career at cia may be cushioned by money wilsons stand to make on book and movie deals , assuming that cia will clear book .
 christopher r hill , chief american envoy , arrives in beijing to resume long-stalled disarmament talks aimed at north_korea . hopes to return process to september 2005 when north_korea agreed in broad draft accord to end its nuclear arms program in return for security , economic and energy benefits . talks involve china , russia , japan , south_korea , united_states and north_korea .
 news analysis observes that while gov george_pataki seems to be using usual budgetary tactics with new_york legislature , difference this year is huge size of budget shortfall and willingness of legislative leaders to override his veto . leaders joseph_bruno and sheldon_silver vow to restore about $ 1.9 billion in spending , although they acknowledge they will have to pass tax increases or other new revenues over governor 's opposition , which has not been done in state in last_century .
 suffolk_county , ny , democrats continue to topple republicans who have traditionally controlled county . islip , county 's second largest town , elects democrat philip_nolan . democrats now hold posts of county executive , district attorney , and presiding officer of county legislature . also have 6 of 11 new_york state assembly seats , and two congressional seats . some democrats talk of party chairman richard_h_schaffer as state_party chairman .
 accounting firm kpmg and law firm brown_&_wood , now sidley_austin_brown_&_wood , agree to pay $ 195 million to as many as 280 wealthy investors who bought four types of questionable tax shelters , first major step by two firms to deal with billions of dollars in potential civil claims . agreement also calls for firms to pay lead plaintiffs ' lawyers $ 30 million in fees .
 sen john_warner , republican_chairman_of_armed_services_committee , criticizes bush administration for preparing plans to send us troops to liberia without making convincing case to congress , which is in recess . comments on senate floor after pentagon abruptly cancels detailed briefing . charges administration is not adhering to doctrine of spelling out risks and national interest involved . remarks by usually staunch bush ally come as two of three navy ships carrying 2,300 marines are set to arrive off liberian coast .
 pres bush inaugurates new lean , mean stump speech , charging that sen john_kerry has ` strategy of defeat ' in iraq . bush leaves out several of his well-worked lines about liberty and freedom and ` greater middle_east ' . campaign officials say this is to keep pace with reality on ground in iraq and to make room for new attack lines against kerry -lrb- white_house letter -rrb- .
 asian nations have sense of alarm about security of oil supplies in region that counts on middle_east for no less than half of its oil . recent terrorist attacks in saudi_arabia have awakened region to possibility that attack on middle_east oil shipments could deprive region of oil at any price . energy ministers from southeast_asia meet in manila with counterparts from china , japan and south_korea to discuss how they might cooperate to reduce that risk . association of southeast asian nations organized meeting . asean ministers agree to improve climate for investment in oil exploration and infrastructure and to raise amount of power derived from renewable energy sources to 10 percent in next six years .
 abc_news names elizabeth_vargas and bob_woodruff to succeed late peter_jennings as anchors of world news tonight , after failing to reach agreement with veteran star charles_gibson , who will continue at good morning america . photos . president david_westin 's negotiations with gibson unravel over timing and tenure , gibson reportedly wanting to serve as anchor through 2008 presidential elections and westin offering two years . ted koppel 's retirement and diane_sawyer 's reported disinterest in moving to evening slot leaves gibson , 62 , as only abc journalist with star power and gravitas to counter cbs and nbc anchors .
 growing number of congressional republicans are expressing doubts about domestic eavesdropping since rep heather_a_wilson broke ranks with pres bush and declared her concerns about national_security_agency_program to intercept international communications inside us without court warrants . wilson and at least six other republican lawmakers are openly skeptical about bush 's assertion that he has inherent authority to order wiretaps and that congress gave him power to do so when it authorized him to use military force after sept 11 , 2001 attacks . they are sens susan_collins , arlen_specter , lisa_murkowski , orrin_g_hatch , lindsey_graham and chuck_hagel . wilson photo .
 jersey column notes that recent magazine list of nation 's wackiest college courses includes two from new jersey : how to watch television at montclair_state_university and getting dressed at princeton . prof thom_gencarelli explains former . prof jenna_weissman_joselit says her course at princeton is about clothes frmo social , political and religious perspective .
 murray chass inside baseball column discusses similarity between team owners george_steinbrenner , who owns new_york_yankees , and al_davis , who owns oakland_raiders . notes similarities between new_york_yankees pitcher roger_clemens and oakland_raiders receiver jerry_rice . discusses remote chance that tampa_bay devil rays might match tampa_bay_buccaneers in having championship season .
 on stage and off column . scott_sanders and his creative battery company to revive 1981 musical dreamgirls . rosie_o'donnell is bringing boy george 's london musical taboo to broadway . tom_cavanagh of television 's ed to take over role in urinetown . photo . nilo_cruz 's anna in the tropics , surprise pulitzer winner , to have reading at public theater . stone cold dead serious extends run .
 democratic candidates for new_york_city mayor have so far refrained from attacking one another but speaker gifford_miller appears to be considering campaign portraying former bronx boro pres fernando_ferrer as someone who did not stay around to fight for new yorkers during recession years after sept 11 attacks and anthony_weiner as ineffectual leader with few accomplishments in congress . photos . internal squabbling of 2001 race recalled .
 american_airlines extends until april 16 voting deadline for $ 340 million in concessions from flight attendants ' union . move comes after union pushes american closer to threatened bankruptcy filing , failing by narrow margin to approve cuts . allied pilots association and transport_workers_union vote in favor of concessions . carrier is seeking $ 1.8 billion worth of concessions from unions . amr chief executive donald_j_carty suggests that flight attendants ' inability to change votes after their balloting on april 1 might account for narrow defeat of cost-cut package .
 cbs official names bill_burkett as source of records critical of pres bush 's texas_national_guard service that were central to controversial report on program 60 minutes ii . burkett said last february that he and fellow officer george_o_conn saw commanders , in touch with bush 's political advisers , leave documents in trash while sanitizing his service records . conn declined to say whether he had witnessed any cleansing of files , but vouches for burkett 's integrity . others who know burkett have similar praise for him , but others dispute burkett 's statements .
 environmental protection agency says about third of americans live in counties that do not meet seven-year-old standards for microscopic particles of pollution that cause thousands of premature deaths every year . 20 states affected , including new_york , new jersey and connecticut , have three years to develop plans to bring their problem counties into compliance by 2010 , or face loss of federal highway money .
 jewish community leaders say austria has done nothing to restore wahring cemetery in vienna , once considered cultural treasure , despite restitution agreement brokered by united_states , in which austria pledged to restore and maintain jewish cemeteries . wahring cemetery contains graves of 8,000 to 10,000 jews . hundreds of its thousands of gravestones were knocked over by nazis , and they still lie on their sides .
 emergency operators who took calls from world trade center on sept 11 , 2001 , were thrust into situations for which no training could have prepared them . they had no time to do anything but give advice and improvise answers even when they were in dark about evacuation orders that had been issued by fire and police commanders . helplessness increasingly defined their predicament and it showed in some of their conversations . calls from inside tower totaled about 130 . over 3,000 calls flooded antiquated system in first 18 minutes , and over 57,000 in first 24 hours after first plane hit north tower .
 pres bush rewards prime min jose_maria_aznar of spain , one of bush 's most loyal supporters in iraq war , with meeting in oval office , dinner at white_house and inclusion of batasuna , radical_basque_nationalist_party , on state dept list of international terrorist groups . batasuna is allied with violent separatist_group_eta , which administration blames for more than 850 deaths in spain . aznar had requested designation , and he profusely thanks bush for keeping his word .
 sen john_kerry , expected democratic nominee for president , is sticking with plan he backed in senate to increase nation 's fuel economy standards 50 percent by 2015 in face of rising gasoline prices and stagnating fuel efficiency . 50 percent would be largest increase since automotive fuel economy standards were first imposed in 1970 's . few think that even kerry could make good on such plan if he were elected president , because there is too much opposition from congressional republicans and midwestern democrats . bush campaign says kerry plan would have devastating effect on region already hemorrhaging manufacturing jobs . automakers say they do not have technology to meet kerry 's numbers .
 boston_scientific 's bid to acquire guidant , maker of stents and other devices used to treat circulatory illnesses , raises questions about its 15 percent stake in cyberonics , whose implanted nerve-stimulation device , vns therapy system , was approved in july for treatment of severe depression . medicare and many major insurers continue to classify treatment as experimental , and there are conflicting views on wall street of technology 's prospects . there are reports that boston_scientific might sell its stake in cyberonics to raise cash if its bid for guidant is successful . among potential buyers would be johnson_&_johnson , boston scientific 's rival for guidant .
 pundits , society at yale founded in 1894 , has history of rebelling against tradition . members organize six to eight naked parties each year , which attract from 30 to 300 people to off-campuse houses . naked partying has caught on at other schools , including brown , wellesley and mit . parties are rarely associated with fraternities or sororities and are considered by participants to be experiment in social interaction , not sexual experience .
 several hundred iraqis living in britain register to cast ballot in iraqi election jan 30 . numbers seem low compared with estimated 250,000 exiled iraqis living in britain . around 150,000 of them are eligible to vote . they are part of overseas iraqi electorate of at least one million spread mainly across 14 countries , including united_states . they could have big say in election 's outcome , helping strengthen what is expected to be shiite dominance .
 rick_kaplan describes his new position as executive producer of cbs_evening_news as ` coming home ' . kaplan worked on broadcast in 1970s when walter_cronkite was anchor . kaplan is among most experienced , and most traveled , producers in tv news , having worked for abc_news , cnn and msnbc as well as cbs over 35-year career . he has won more than 30 emmy awards and has worked with some of biggest names in business , including peter_jennings , ted_koppel and diane_sawyer .
 essay by alan_schwarz on brooks_kieschnick , relief pitcher for milwaukee_brewers and major league baseball 's first version of two-way player in almost 40 years . notes that kieschnick , once a professional outfielder , decided at age 30 to give pitching a try . says brewers also use him as pinch-hitter and designated hitter . says baseball has long tradition of exterminating two-way stars , but kieschnick has attracted legion of fans who delight in his becoming baseball 's renaissance man .
 steve_elmendorf , adviser to rep dick_gephardt for 12 years , becomes deputy campaign manager for sen john_kerry after gephardt pulls out of race for democratic presidential nomination . elmendorf stresses his belief in gephardt but feels that kerry is best man still in race . elmendorf has long friendship with kerry national campaign manager mary_beth_cahill .
 flight attendants at american_airlines narrowly approve $ 340 milion in annual wage and benefit cuts , giving carrier more room to avert bankruptcy filing . flight attendants will take 15.6 percent pay cut , starting may 1 , and about 2,000 will be laid off . acccept changes to benefits and work rules . amr chief executive donald j carty thanks union leadership and employees for recognizing urgency of company 's financial crisis . carty agreed last_month to take 33 percent cut in base salary and forgo bonus this year .
 three atlantic_city casinos and casino_reinvestment_development_authority will finance direct weekend train service between new_york_city and atlantic_city , to be operated by new_jersey_transit . borgata , caesars and harrah 's casinos will finance new rail cars and pay annual operating costs for three-year demonstration period and casino_reinvestment_authority will lease engines for line .
 conviction of james_calvin_tillman in 1989 on charges of rape and kidnapping is vacated after dna testing shows no match between tillman and victim 's clothing . he had served 18 years of 45 year sentence when two public defenders with connecticut innocence project had dna tests conducted . judge thomas p miano orders tillman released pending new trial .
 johnson_&_johnson , which introduced in us promosing new drug-coated stent to treat heart disease nearly year before anyone else , has already lost its lead . boston_scientific_corp , which introduced rival device two months ago , says it has captured about 70 percent of new orders . says its us revenue for device was $ 163 million in april , with additional $ 42 million overseas . johnson_&_johnson declines to discuss its sales for march and april , but contends doctors are still deciding which device they prefer .
 about 200,000 customers of united_water in west_new_york , nj , and towns surrounding it are without water or suffer very low water pressure after main breaks . repairs are hampered by bitter cold weather , which may have caused problem . other towns affected are north_bergen , guttenberg , weehawken and union_city , which was hardest hit .
 black and hispanic officials in brooklyn 's 11th congressional district , historically significant one for blacks , gather to discuss strategies for defeating david_yassky , white_city councilman from brooklyn_heights , in congressional election . officials hope to convince one or two of three black candidates to drop out of race and reduce chance of splitting black vote . none of three remaining candidates , carl_andrews , yvette_d_clarke and chris_owens , plan to withdraw to win .
 los angeles judge_michael_t_sauer sends socialite paris hilton back to jail some 36 hours after she was released for unspecified medical problem . orders hilton to serve rest of her sentence in county lockup after city attorney , rocky_delgadillo , filed petition asking that sheriff 's department be held in contempt or explain why it had released her with ankle monitor after she had served just five days . hilton had been sentenced to 45 days in jail for violating terms of her probation in alcohol-related reckless driving case .
 hip-hop producer and murder inc record executive irv_gotti surrenders to federal authorities to face money-laundering charges for allegedly aiding friend and convicted drug kingpin kenneth_mcgriff , known as supreme , in concealing more than $ 1 million in illicit narcotics proceeds . indictment also names gotti 's brothers irving and christopher_lorenzo , ja rule manager ronald_robinson and bookkeeper cynthia_brent .
 arts briefing column : british government places temporary ban on export of roman sculpture known as jenkins venus so that british museum or gallery can match l8 million -lrb- $ 12.8 million -rrb- paid for it at 2002 auction by anomymous bidder , believed to be american . cuban singer ibrahim_ferrer , pianist chucho_valdes and group los van van reportedly may miss latin grammy awards ceremony in miami in september because state department may not have time to process their visas .
 third article in series on evolving nature of long_island sound . bioblitz , 24-hour cram-session census of life in one place , is held in new_london , conn , on long_island sound . about 160 scientists along with as many science and nature lovers counted and classified 1,691 distinct species to illustrate biological diversity of area .
 suffolk_county district attorney thomas_spota and leonard_lato , head of insurance crimes unit , shy away from discussing why suffolk_county court judge_james_hudson has dismissed 10 of 567 indictments against doctors , psychiatrists and chiropractors accused of falsifying medical claims stemming from staged car accidents and bilking state farm insurance companies of $ 48 million . douglas_nadjari , lawyer defending four doctors and six medical groups , has raised questions about evidence .
 senate republicans block symbolic no-confidence vote against atty gen alberto_r_gonzales that democrats sought to intensify pressure on him to resign . effort fails in procedural step that falls seven votes short of 60 needed to end debate and move to vote on resolution . vote is 53 to 38 , with 7 republicans voting with democrats . republicans who reject proposal offer little defense of gonzales , but portray resolution as politically motivated stunt . gonzales says he intends to serve out remainder of pres bush 's term , and bush repeats his support of gonzales . democrats are conducting investigations into dismissals of united_states attorneys and gonzales 's stewardship of justice_dept .
 lucent technologies chief executive patricia_f_russo plans to return nation 's leading maker of communications switching equipment for telephone companies to profitability by end of 2003 . has overseen elimination of 22,000 employees and other cost-reducing strategies . reiterates forecast of 20 percent sales growth in current quarter , to $ 2.5 billion . company adapts to major customers ' sluggish spending .
 collegiate_church_corp , which has owned land under corbin building in lower manhattan for 282 years , wants to turn building 's upper floors into new amsterdam center . center would be collection of dutch-related historic , cultural and business enterprises in honor of its religious heritage and new_york_city 's first settlers . building and three others owned by church are to be taken by eminent domain for new fulton street transit center .
 pres bush , at social security forum in westfield , nj , and later at university_of_notre_dame , tries to jumpstart his uphill drive for personal accounts . asserts that retirement system requires drastic change and challenges skeptics to put their own ideas forward . democratic leaders amass in new_york and elsewhere as part of weekend fly-around to counter administration blitz . democratic national_committee_runs_radio advertisements in cities bush has visited , and groups like aarp step up their opposition strategies .
 israelis vote in their fourth national election in seven years , and it is widely billed as one of most important -- and least inspiring -- ballots in israel 's history . acting prime min ehud olmert and his centrist kadima party , overwhelming favorite , say they are prepared to fix israel 's eastern border in next four years in what would be wrenching process involving removal of tens of thousands of jewish settlers from west_bank .
 mayor alaa_al-tamimi of baghdad says he can not run crumbling city of more than six million people when central government has decided to give him only $ 85 million of $ 1 billion he requested . repeats his threat to resign if he does not get more financial help to make city function with at least minimal efficiency .
 paul lim column on attitude toward pensions and retirement by workers of different ages . ameriprise financial survey found that majority of older workers said they need advice on how to teach their own children about money and finances . hewitt_associates survey found only 31 percent of eligible generation y workers are participating in tax-deferred 401 -lrb- k -rrb- plans and most have no clue as to how to allocate their funds . found that 63 percent of those age 26 to 41 and 72 percent of baby boomers are participating in 401 -lrb- k -rrb- funds .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column says pres bush 's state of union address took his swaggering sheriff routine to new heights , saying in effect that united_states can wage war whenever it wants to . says bush and vice pres dick_cheney are better at looking cool than howard_dean did on night of iowa caucuses , but their doctrine of pre-emption is just as hot . says bush and cheney like to present calm , experienced demeanor , but their foreign policy is intemperate .
 housing industry has lost its vigor in recent months and has begun to bog down broader economy , which slowed to modest 2.5 percent growth rate this spring . that was sharp comedown from 5.6 percent growth rate of first_quarter , caused in part by third consecutive quarterly decline in spending on houses and apartment buildings , after several years of rapid growth . housing slowdown is perhaps clearest effect of federal_reserve 's two-year campaign of raising interest rates in bid to tap brakes on economy and reduce inflation .
 turkey 's foreign min yasar_yakis says country 's parliament will probably vote on february 25 on whether to allow american combat troops to use turkey as base for attacks on iraq . says both sides are trying to resolve fundamental issues , including exact role of turkish troops in northern iraq and control of country 's oil fields there . is optimistic deal can be arrived at in time for vote .
 michelle_bachelet , chile 's defense minister for last year , recalls being imprisoned under gen augusto_pinochet , having to leave country in 1975 and returning in 1979 . her father , alberto_bachelet_martinez , air_force general under pres salvador allende , was arrested immediately after allende 's fall , convicted of treason by colleagues and sent to prison , where he died in 1974 . assessment of her performance in office is largely positive in both civilian and military circles .
 republicans , who blamed democrats controlling senate for congress 's failure to pass any of 13 required spending bills by oct_1_, 2002 deadline , have managed to pass only three of bills by 2003 deadline despite their control of both houses . sen tom_daschle scores republican performance . sen bill frist and other republicans defend delay . resolution of spending bills seems far off .
 india 's government is doling out money to nagpur and other second tier cities to help them modernize . government has pledged to spend $ 29 billion over seven years to upgrade 62 cities . grants are given only to cities that can show good fiscal controls and enact business-friendly policies . plan is to provide kind of modern conveniences and infrastructure that will attract more international investors to india .
 cities and counties throughout south , hoping to attract tourists , are starting projects to commemorate important moments in civil rights movement . in greensboro , nc , woolworth where sit-in movement began will become museum . in mississippi , neshoba_county has published civil rights tour guide showing site where three civil rights workers were killed . in alabama , national_park_service will break ground on first of three visitor centers along route of selma-to-montgomery voting rights march . communities are embracing a past laced with shame and violence , lured by tourism money . approach of benchmark anniversaries , like 40th birthday of voting rights march , has prompted re-examination of past , whether locals like it or not .
 number of new_york_city democrats are expected to seek state_senate seat of david_paterson of harlem , whom atty gen_eliot_spitzer has chosen as running mate in campaign for governor . include c virginia fields , former manhattan borough president , rodney_s_capel , executive director of state_democratic_committee , and bill_perkins , former city councilman .
 white_house memo on whether pres bush can protect karl rove , his closest political adviser , from revelations that rove talked with time reporter matthew_cooper about cia agent valerie_plame . those in administration say bush will defend rove as long as he faces no serious legal charges . bush and press secretary scott_mcclellan refuse to answer questions about contretemps over whether rove tried to discredit joseph_c_wilson 's criticism of bush 's iraq claims by discussing wilson 's wife 's role at cia , while not saying her name . wilson himself was first to accuse rove of leaking wife 's name for political reasons .
 house and urban development department withdraws proposal to overhaul rules on closing home loans because of opposition from mortgage industry and consumer groups . agency estimated measure would save homebuyers $ 700 each on their loans , or $ 8 billion per year , more than sixth of $ 50 billion that hud says americans spend each year on closing costs .
 central american free trade agreeement , current centerpiece of pres bush 's trade agenda , faces unusually united_democratic_opposition and opposition from well-entrenched special interest groups . sentiment in congress is shifting away from approving new free trade pacts amid record trade deficits , fear united_states is losing out in accelerated pace of global changes , other issues . trade deal , signed year ago , involves costa_rica , el_salvador , guatemala , honduras and nicaragua . its prospects of moving forward have been soured by larger questions about china 's enormous economic power and whether it obeys trade rules and by unmet expectations from north american free trade agreement .
 toyota is considering arkansas , north_carolina , tennesee and virginia for site of its eighth north american assembly plant . expansion could soon make toyota world 's largest auto maker . announcement comes after ford_motor_co said it would close virginia plant as part of its restructuring plan . ford and general_motors have plans to shut 30 factories and eliminate 60,000 jobs through 2012 .
 bertelsmann_ag puts its signature green glass skyscraper in times square on auction block in sale that may allow new owner to rename what is now called bertelsmann building . bertelsmann has signed contract to sell its newly acquired random_house office space at broadway and 55th st for $ 290 million . pending transactions represent remarkable retreat from company 's plans for flamboyant beachhead in times square .
 yahoo comes under mounting criticism for bowing to chinese government request that its hong_kong division surrender information on chinese journalist who used yahoo e-mail address to share with foreigners message that his newspaper had received from chinese authorities warning it not to overplay 15th anniversary of tiananmen_square . shi tao , journalist , has been sentenced to 10 years in prison . yahoo 's action will be investigated by congress and commerce_department . yahoo argues that it must abide by laws of countries in which it operates .
 witness burton_kaplan testifies at murder_trial_of_louis_j_eppolito and stephen_caracappa that immense pressure was placed on him to cooperate against defendants . says about 25 investigators from different agencies urged him to reveal what he knew about eppolito and caracappa . kaplan says that eppolito and caracappa worked as hired killers for luchese crime family .
 financial remittances sent home by mexican migrants working in united_states , both legal and illegal , as well as those from other places in central_america and caribbean , are being translated into political clout in their home communities . migrants ' communities in united_states are better organized and more vocal than before and have become social and political forces too important to ignore at home . half the people of valparaiso , mexico , have left to work in united_states , sending home an estimated $ 100,000 a day , as much money in one month as municipality will spend all years . mayor alberto_ruiz_flores travels to places like oxnard , calif , and aurora , ill , to solicit funds for public works projects in valparaiso . in addition , countries like mexico and dominican_republic are taking steps to allow their citizens living in united_states to cast absentee ballots in elections .
 residents of columbus , ga , express anger as estimated 15,000 protesters gather outside fort_benning to demand that base close its training school for latin american officers , especially since focus of annual protest has broadened to other issues , including iraq war . base has lost more than 40 soldiers since 2003 , and many residents and army families say that to pull out of iraq now would dishonor that sacrifice .
 sen john_kerry releases military records , which show uniformly positive evaluations from his commanders in vietnam . move , which is in response to some who have questioned purple heart awarded to kerry in 1968 , appears to silence critics . bush campaign spokesman terry_holt says issue was never kerry 's service but hypocrisy in calling for full disclosure from bush without kerry having released his own military records .
 thomas e cavanagh_of_conference_board , in study for homeland_security_department , finds that as of last_spring , about half of 100 companies questioned did not increase spending on security after sept 11 terrorist attacks . nearly 40 percent of executives favored minimizing such expenditures and 25 percent of companies said chief executives had not met with security directors in past year . experts like william_daly see absence of sustained focus or vigilance , although serious steps have been taken at other firms . yellow roadway chairman william_d_zollars says security has added $ 50 million a year to operating costs . corporate security often takes form of protective barriers in front of office buildings .
 15 million people a year visit metropolitan museum 's web site each year without ever setting foot in building itself . internet surfers around world number more than three times the 4.5 million visitors who go to museum . web site offers information in ten languages , facts and photos about collection , activities for children and myriad of retail goods . photos . getty museum 's site also described -lrb- special section , museums -rrb- .
 general_motors , eager to reverse continuing slide in sales and market share in north_america , may be willing to rethink its reliance on long-term relationships with advertising agencies . that is big news for agencies because gm , despite its difficulties , remains nation 's largest automaker , far outspending competitors for advertising . gm spent $ 2.9 billion on ads last year .
 lawrence van gelder column reports on plans for german film about hitler 's final days , tentatively titled der untergang -lrb- the downfall -rrb- , showing of thomas_edison 's 1910 frankenstein film in jersey city , frick_collection exhibition on fashion as element of art of james_mcneill_whistler , benefit for play co at public theater and highlights of new_orleans jazz and heritage_festival .
 showtime plans to begin airing new reality-tv series , american_candidate , on august 1 . series revolves around 10 competitors campaigning across country , debating and meeting news media . they will be vying for $ 200,000 in cash and chance to address nation . contestants include chrissy_gephardt , advocate for gay issues , keith_boykin , former aide to bill_clinton , and bruce_friedrich , director with people for the ethical treatment of animals .
 first of two articles on state of the party says that republicans seem optimistic at time when congress is thinly divided along partisan lines , another presidential election is taking shape and rules of campaign finance are in legal limbo . party officials around country , convinced that this may be their moment , are raising prospect of era of republican dominance . republicans already hold white_house , expect to continue to control_house of representatives and have majority in senate . for first time in 50 years , majority of state legislators are republicans .
 israeli airstrikes destroy four bridges along lebanon 's main highway in christian_heartland north of beirut , and kill more than 30 people in other areas far from hezbollah-controlled territory . attacks seem aimed at arms routes from syria , but because same routes bring supplies and aid into country , strikes tighten lebanon 's sense of siege . hezbollah fires 200 rockets at israel , killing four people , and launching its deepest strike into israel . rocket travels 50 miles from border to outskirts of hadera .
 computer makers at world economic forum in davos , switzerland , demonstrate low-cost computers in effort to bridge digital divide between developed and developing world . former mit media laboratory director nicholas_p_negroponte_shows_xo prototype designed to sell for $ 100 by end of 2008 . intel has its own design that is currently more expensive . dispute between negroponte and intel chairman craig_r_barrett threatens to undermine efforts to advance economic and educational development .
 bowery residents ' committee , which houses 175 homeless people in floors above cbgb_nightclub and which is still owed $ 75,000 of $ 300,000 in back rent by club , reportedly could begin eviction proceedings . two have been in and out of court for much of last four years and court documents show club has not fully abided by 2001 monthly payment plan .
 aviation officials from paris to los_angeles scramble to tighten security , forcing thousands of passengers to change christmas eve travel plans , to guard against possibility of terrorist hijacking . air france cancels six flights at urging of us officials who suspect up to six passengers of having terrorist links . chicago curbs flights over downtown and los_angeles_airport bans curbside stops . photos . federal federal authorities intensely analyze intelligence from electronic and human sources , focusing on flights from france and mexico , and increase jet-fighter patrols over nation .
 pres bush says saddam_hussein 's rule has been ended but that war in iraq would not be over until it has been cleared of banned weapons . he delivers strong warning to syria not to harbor any officials of hussein 's government or military . he visits wounded military personnel at two hospitals in washington area , handing out 13 purple hearts and witnessing two injured foreign-born marines being sworn in as american citizens .
 rep jerry_weller of illinois has announced that he will marry zury rios_sosa , congresswoman in guatemala and daughter of former dictator gen efrain rios_montt . weller 's tie to one of guatemala 's most notorious political figures has become issue in his re-election campaign . his democratic opponent tari_renner says weller should repudiate rios_montt_regime and resign from house_committee_on_international_relations .
 hamas political leader khaled mehal , speaking from exile in damascus after elections says hamas will not bow to international pressure to recognize israel . defends attacks on civilians . hamas leaders expressed variety of views on negotiating with israel during campaign , but hamas 's deeply held religious beliefs argue against any fundamental change . united_states and europe have said they will not have dealings with hamas until it renounces violence and terrorism and recognizes israel .
 ancient egyptian momument to king_khasekhemwy , who ruled in second dynasty around 2780 bc , is undergoing maintanance to shore up crumbling walls and doorways . ruins , which are 300 miles south of cairo in abydos , are known as shunet el-zebib . dr david_o'connor , institute of fine arts at new_york_university egyptologist , describes work on site and unique qualities of enclosure , which was not used as burial ground , but is thought to be center of worship .
 former pres bill clinton says his foundation will focus on reduction of greenhouse gases . makes announcement in california , hours after state_environmental_protection_agency releases report predicting that it will become hotter and drier by end of century . california , like rest of nation , has been struggling through weeks of record temperatures and ensuing power failures . clinton says interest in climate issues arose during his presidency and has grown in recent years .
 article on rising market for medical offices . real capital analytics says $ 1.3 billion worth of medical office buildings individually valued at $ 5 million or more changed hands in 2003 , up from $ 954.6 million in 2002 and $ 787.8 million in 2001 . says $ 330 million in sales have closed so far this year , with another $ 401 million under contract . some specific deals discussed .
 first democratic candidate forum of 2008 presidential race is held in carson_city , nev , with war in iraq being top subject of discussion . former sen john_edwards and sen_christopher_j_dodd , presidential rivals of sen hillary_rodham_clinton , apply more pressure on her over iraq , extolling virtue of admitting mistakes about war , which she has not done , and comparing politicans who do not with pres bush . clinton reiterates opposition to war and outlines plan .
 martha_stewart faced new_york state tax inquiry in 1994 for taxes owed for 1991 and 1992 . issue was whether stewart was required to pay state income taxes , and among points of disagreement was whether she maintained home in new_york and how much time she spent in state each year . authorities cited stewart 's own magazine to contend she lived in new_york . regulators determined she owed more than $ 200,000 in taxes , penalties and interest , amount she eventually paid .
 analysis of census data shows that 51 percent of american women were living without spouse in 2005 , up from 35 percent in 1950 and 49 percent in 2000 . married couples became minority of american households for first time , trend that could reshape social and workplace policies . factors range from women marrying later or living unmarried with partners to those living longer as widows or delaying remarriage after divorce because they prefer their new freedom . about 30 percent of black women , 49 percent of hispanics , 55 percent of white women and more than 60 percent of asians are living with spouses . prof stephanie_coontz notes that americans now spend half adult lives outside marriage . demographer william_h_frey sees culmination of post-1960 trends of greater independence and more flexible lifestyles . several women of various ages explain preference for living alone .
 sales of expensive summer homes on long_island are already outpacing 2006 figures . additional surprise is that homes built on speculation have also been in demand , including two in east_hampton that are on market for more than $ 18 million . nassau_county has also seen brisk business in luxury summer rental contracts .
 article on two versions of investigation into september 3 episode in downtown new hartford between fbi agents working on federal probe of state contract-steering in connecticut gov john_rowland 's administration and private investigators working for murzin-thibault investigative group . private investigators say surveillance equipment , address books and notes were seized by fbi agents and investigator was roughed up . us attorney 's office denies allegations of intimidation or harassment of witnesses .
 scientists from taiwan , united_states and japan invite mainland chinese scientists to take part in taiger , $ 5 million study of movement in , around and below island of taiwan . hold that over several million years that taiwan strait will disappear and island will be connected to china . study will generate high resolution 3-d images of many mountain ranges and movement below sea level .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg has already spent $ 5 million of his own money on his re-election drive , nearly as much as democrats vying for his job are allowed to spend during their entire primary . figure reflects campaign that could spend even more than in 2001 , when bloomberg spent $ 72 million . campaign filings show that bloomberg has spent over $ 2.5 million on ` voter list development ' . his aides say he is striving to develop most sophisticated voter outreach operation in history of new_york mayoral campaigns .
 trial of baldassare_amato for 1992 murders of fellow bonanno crime family members robert_perrino and sebastian_difalco is about to enter sixth week in federal court in brooklyn . mob defectors have testified in rich detail about gangland murder . trial and mob defections show decline in bonnano family and mafia traditions . anthony_basile and stephen_locurto , amato_associates , are also on trial for murder .
 unilever , giant home - and personal-care products company , is building $ 23 million addition to one of its five office buildings in trumbull , conn , industrial park . move is final step toward establishing divisional headquarters in town . addition will accommodate some 1,000 employees working at sites in greenwich , conn , and englewood cliffs and edgewater , nj . map .
 pres bush , in address to us conference of mayors , says he will spend more money to protect cities from potential terrorist attacks . says his 2005 budget will allocate $ 30 billion for homeland security , 10 percent increase from previous year . his remarks are greeted with skepticism from some officials who say that bush has not followed through on earlier pledges . bush photo .
 op-ed article by francisco_goldman says gen_efrain_rios_montt 's resurgence in guatemala is blatant symbol of what ` democracy ' has sometimes wrought in latin_america . recalls his previous reign , when guatemalan_army waged scorched-earth campaign and engaged in hundreds of massacres of rural mayan indians . says army 's power is based on organized crime . says country 's last best hope is for united_nations , in conjunction with united_states , human rights groups and others , to form another international_commission to investigate wrongdoing in guatemala . says major obstacle is that this must be ratified by guatemalan_congress , which is currently led by rios_montt .
 mark a stein five days column . nokia and siemens agreed to combine their network hardware businesses in bid to stay more competitive . andarko_petroleum_corp agreed to buy kerr-mcgee and western gas resources . fedex said profit increased 27 percent and forecast even higher earnings in coming year . us and british authorities are investigating possible price collusion among airlines flying across north_atlantic . airbus has come under renewed scrutiny by its parent european_aeronautic_defense and space co . eads is being reviewed by french government . japan has reached agreement that allows inspectors into american meatpacking plants and resumption of imports of american beef .
 sara lee_corp names new chief executive , brenda_c_barnes , and announces plans to divest four businesses that together account for 40 percent of company 's revenue . c steven_mcmillan , who also announces he is stepping down as chief executive , says sara_lee will spin off its $ 4.5 billion apparel business , its $ 1.1 billion european packaged meat division , american_coffee_brands and direct-sales unit for cosmetics and household products . mcmillan will remain as chairman through october .
 daniel_storto , who makes gloves by hand for some of hollywood 's top stars , sets up shop in gloversville , ny , where 80 percent of nation 's gloves were produced before business started moving offshore 50 years ago . humbert salluzzo , 87 , is holdover from town 's glovemaking heyday , making gloves by machine .
 pres saddam hussein delivers belligerent speech , accusing united_nations weapons inspectors of spying against iraq and declaring that iraqi people are ready for any sacrifices required by another war . uses occasion of his annual army day address to serve notice that iraq is primed to fight . hussein 's hostile language is reminiscent of iraqi attitude during inspections from 1991 to 1998 , when confrontations periodically led to american bombing raids on iraq .
 house republican leaders work feverishly to allay conservative qualms and round up votes needed to pass bill to add drug benefits to medicare . pres bush holds two meetings with house members in effort to ensure passage of legislation . senate works methodically through amendments and turns back democratic proposal to expand benefits under legislation , which is officially estimated to cost $ 400 billion over 10 years . senate sponsors reach bipartisan agreement on how to spend $ 12 billion of that money for demonstrations to test two rival visions of medicare , one that relies on competing private plans and one that relies on traditional government program .
 labor department reports 0.1 percent decline in jobless rate in november , to 5.4 percent . reports increase of 112,000 jobs , far fewer than in october and not enough to keep pace with average increases in adult population . analysts now say spectacular jump of 337,000 jobs in october was mostly aberration in trend of slow growth in jobs and wages .
 group of 728 men , women and children formed line at algonquin arts theater in manasquan , nj , on august 17 in hopes of breaking guinness world record for assembling longest dance kick line . crowd , led by handful of former rockettes and aspiring rockettes , surpassed record of 535 set by princeton_university 's triangle_club in 1991 .
 british appeals court overturns angela_cannings 's conviction and life sentence for smothering two of her children , finding that conviction rested on presumption of guilt rather than evidence . cannings lost three of her four children to sudden infant death syndrome . case calls into question so-called meadow 's law , which says one such death is tragedy , two are suspicious , and third is murder ` unless proven otherwise ' . attorney general , lord_goldsmith , announces review of 258 similar criminal cases and may review civil family court cases as well .
 gunfire and stabbings leave six men dead across new_york_city in 24 hours . antonio quinones and another man are found with gunshot wounds in burning parked vehicle in queens . quinones is hospitalized , while identity of dead man is unknown . joy kar is fatally shot during manhattan restaurant robbery . kyle_fredricks is fatally shot on queens street . douglas_blandon is found fatally shot after crash in brooklyn .
 article on how well long islanders have fared in annual intel nationwide science competition , which was begun by westinghouse in 1942 . long_island has produced more than 120 finalists who have won combined $ 484,000 in scholarships and four top winners . nine islanders are in this year 's competition , whose top prize is now $ 100,000 . finalists gwen_lichtman -lrb- 1972 -rrb- , dr jerome_zelkis -lrb- 1968 -rrb- , kurt_thorn -lrb- 1992 -rrb- and v rada dyson-hudson -lrb- 1947 -rrb- comment .
 thousands of israelis trudge through taba border post , returning home in shock after bombings that killed at least 29 people and wounded more than 160 others at three sinai resorts in one of largest and most skillfully executed terrorist attacks on israelis in many years . death toll is expected to rise as rescue workers from egypt and israel dig through rubble of taba_hilton . palestinian groups deny responsibility for attack . egypt is expected to move quickly to discover those responsible and crack down . israeli prime min ariel sharon praises egyptian pres hosni_mubarak for cooperation with israeli rescue workers .
 independent film producer craig_mowry files suit charging that idea and much of language , setting and characters in movie the truman show were taken from script he wrote and copyrighted in 1986 , five years before andrew_m_niccol registered his first treatment for film . suit names viacom , scott_rudin productions , paramount pictures and niccol .
 intense conflict over land in south_africa pits tens of thousands of white landowners , beneficiaries of system that denied blacks property rights , against millions of nonwhites left landless by colonialism . landless have been waiting for close to decade for democracy to end that disparity . their growing impatience threatens black-white compact that has been linchpin of south_africa 's stability . upon ending apartheid in 1994 , government leaders pledged to use treasury and law to transfer 30 percent of white-owned farmland to nonwhites in five years . 10 years later , they have transferred only 2 percent . more than 90 percent of commercial farmland remains in hands of 50,000 white farmers . experts agree that many white farmers would willingly sell for fair price , but that nation 's black-run government has given land reform back seat to other priorities , such as aids and crime .
 article on debate in new jersey 's urban and suburban school districts over viability of middle school . some urban districts such as newark , paterson and trenton have converted middle schools to long-term elementary schools that house students from kindergarten through eighth grade while most suburban towns , including princeton , millburn and cherry hill , remain comfortable with middle school concept , which they contend offers smooth transition to high school .
 profile of tzipi_livni , who is first woman to serve as israel 's foreign minister since golda_meir . some think she may be first woman prime minister since meir . livni is lawyer noted for her pragmatism and willingness to confront ideology with pragmatism . will travel to us next week in effort to maintain international solidarity in face of hamas 's election victory .
 john_kerry spends second_day touring hard-hit midwestern industrial areas to highlight recent job losses as he and his campaign escalate criticism of military records of pres bush and vice pres cheney . kerry predicts veterans will be angry that bush can not account for his own service in national_guard , while cheney ` got every deferment in the world , ' in contrast to kerry 's own vietnam service .
 article on positive reaction by local residents to cira_centre , 29-story , $ 177.6 million office tower designed by cesar_pelli that is being constructed just outside philadelphia 's central business district . site , on west_bank_of_schuylkill next to amtrak station , is , in effect , creating striking new western gateway to city . planners and economic development officials say building promises to propel efforts to reinvigorate riverfront and university_city neighborhood .
 american troops in sadr_city battle rebel cleric moktada al-sadr ` s mahdi_army , while sadr remains holed up in najaf . negotiations or offensives may eject sadr from najaf , but sadr_city remains true power base . mahdi army commonly raids other baghdad neighborhoods . it is surprisingly well-organized and supplied . police are afraid to confront militia members .
 ten years after signing of dayton_accords , bush administration is pressing bosnia 's sectarian factions to seek revised constitution and to pledge to arrest radovan_karadzic for war crimes . notable aspect of talks is support they are receiving from negotiators of original bosnian agreement . richard_c_holbrooke , chief negotiator , and others have long contended that power-sharing arrangement has become outmoded , especially if bosnia wants to join european_union .
 study of long-secret soviet records lends new weight to old theory that josef_stalin , who died of brain hemorrhage 50 years ago , was actually poisoned , perhaps to avert looming war with us . new book stalin 's last crime , by vladimir_p_naumov and jonathan_brent , suggests he may have been poisoned with warfarin , blood thinner also used as rat killer , during final dinner with four members of politburo . base theory in part on early drafts of previously secret accounts of stalin 's final days by doctors , which show he suffered extensive stomach hemorrhaging during death throes . suggest most likely suspect was lavrenti_p_beria , who was for 15 years his despised minister of internal security and who allegedly boasted of killing stalin on may day , two months after his death .
 sharon waxman reporter 's notebook column on this year 's sundance film festival in park_city , utah , in light of unflattering new book , down and dirty pictures : miramax , sundance and the rise of independent film by peter_biskind . highlights some of 137 films in festival , including comedy garden state written and directed by and starring zach_braff .
 chuck_pfarrer op-ed article on 20th anniversary of deadly truck bombing attack on american_marines at beirut_airport , where they were part of multinational peacekeeping force . notes arab world today sees america 's presence in iraq in much same way it saw united_states mission in lebanon . holds marines ' sacrifice in lebanon was in vain because mission was withdrawn , abandoning nation to syrian occupation . urges us not to abandon iraqis .
 james_dermody , appointed president of long_island rail road on september 25 , says he will focus on building lirr link to grand central terminal , extending main line 's third track to hicksville and constructing storage yard in huntington or smithtown . says his other priorities will be improving reliability in on-time performance , safety and availability of seats .
 former restaurateur steve_nygren is developing residential and commercial community outside atlanta , called serenbe , that will offer 224 homes , 95,000 square feet of mixed-use commercial space and unusual amount of green space -- 70 % of community 's land . along with neighboring landowners , nygren formed coalition to effect changes in local zoning laws that facilitated development of serenbe , seen as prototype for similar kinds of communities in area . homes will range from about $ 300,000 to $ 525,000 .
 usa next , conservative lobbying group , hires consultants who advised swift boat veterans last year to orchestrate attacks on aarp for opposing pres bush 's plan to revamp social security . usa next says it will spend $ 10 million on commercials and other tactics assailing aarp , which sent mailings to its 35 million members and spent $ 5 million on print advertisements opposing private investment accounts at center of bush 's plan . several huge business lobbies , like business roundtable , have assembled coalitions to promote bush 's proposals across country . but usa next , which portrays aarp as liberal organization out of step with republican values , claims it is not part of white_house effort .
 sudden drop in temperature coupled with up to six inches of snow in some areas apparently causes deaths of three men in new_york_city . two men are found frozen to death in brooklyn parking lot where they were known to have slept . body of lennox_hunte of brooklyn is found frozen in snow in queens and he is thought to have died of hypothermia . fierce weather around region described .
 fire officials in new_orleans fear that city will begin to dry out only to have more fires break out as floodwaters recede . 15 fires have broken out , and some are thought to be arson . gas leaks are another concern . only 4 of city 's 29 firehouses on east_bank_of_mississippi_rier are accessible . new_york_city firefighters sent to assist give new_orleans_department high marks for planning and professionalism . as many as 80 percent of firefighters have been displaced by hurricanes .
 seven palestinians , including three boys , are killed and more than 40 are wounded by israeli forces at rafah refugee camp in gaza_strip . troops remain in rafah after raid , searching for tunnels through which arms are being smuggled . find two tunnels and destroyed them . over past week , israeli military has responded with force to two palestinian suicide bombings , one of which killed 20 israelis in haifa . travel restrictions on palestinians have also been tightened .
 race for united_states_senate in new jersey takes its toll on candidates thomas_h_kean jr and incumbent robert_menendez as contentious race comes towards its finish . crowds are thinning , especially for kean , as voters seem weary of negative tone of race . barack obama draws crowd for menendez that mostly disperses after obama speaks .
 micheline_maynard analysis of financial crisis facing delta_air_lines , which has begun warning that it may have to seek bankruptcy protection . discusses pressure of soaring jet fuel costs , which delta failed to hedge against and which airlines can not easily pass on to consumers because of stiff competition from low-fare airlines . says cost-cutting by delta 's rivals since sept_11_, 2001 , have erased much of delta 's onetime efficiency advantage . notes rep john_l_mica 's statement to airline executives during june 3 congressional hearing that they can not expect any more significant help from government .
 pres bush discounts us differences with asian nations on handling nuclear standoff with north_korea , saying japan , south_korea , european_union and other countries will work together to ensure that korean_peninsula is nuclear weapons-free . insists despite widespread evidence of differences that us calls to isolate kim jong il may be succeeding . comments while at texas ranch . photo . administration will argue in un security council that , while iraq should face military consequences , there is still time for diplomatic and economic pressure to work on north_korea .
 weeklong calm in shiite ghetto of sadr_city disolves into gun battles that leave at least 40 iraqis and one us soldier dead and 202 people wounded . fighting ends unilateral cease-fire declard by moktada_al-sadr_`_s_mahdi_militia . photos . combat erupts as us forces move to assert control . three other us soldiers are killed in separate attacks in or near baghdad . us warplanes attack falluja following car bombing that killed seven us marines . insurgents ambush baghdad governor 's convoy . son of mosul governor is reported killed .
 news analysis debunks ralph_nader 's claim that votes for him for president will not be at expense of democratic nominee . recalls close margins in key states in 2000 , when 45 percent of nader_voters said they would otherwise have voted for al_gore , 27 percent mentioned george_w_bush and rest said they would not have voted .
 democratic presidential nomination battle turns into two-man contest as sen john_kerry narrowly defeats sen john_edwards , 40 percent to 34 percent , in wisconsin . howard dean suffers dismal 18 percent showing that democrats say effectively ends his campaign . photos . vote breakdown . outcome sets stage for clean two-way race over longer period of time , as edwards has sought . key question is whether dean will withdraw and back kerry or edwards .
 article on daunting task warner_brothers_pictures has been facing in trying to revive superman movie franchise after 19-year absence . company has spent nearly $ 10 million on development , hired no fewer than 10 writers and four directors and met with scores of clark kent hopefuls . bryan singer was named on july 18 to replace director joseph_mcginty_nichol .
 farmers in salinas_valley_of_california are concerned that their effort to regain consumer confidence after last_month 's deadly e coli outbreak in spinach will be hurt by recall of about 8,500 cartons of lettuce , which may or may not have come into contact with water contaminated with e coli_bacteria . voluntary recall by nunes_co of lettuce sold under foxy label is presented as precautionary move .
 judge patrick j roma rebukes garry_f_mccarthy , deputy new_york_city police commissioner and nominee for newark police director , for parking infraction and confrontation with parkway police at rest stop on palisades interstate parkway in february 2005 . rejects mccarthy 's attempt to have his conviction in matter dismissed . mayor cory_booker says he stands firmly behind mccarthy 's appointment .
 hundreds demonstrate for same-sex marriages outside city hall in new_york_city , while dozens more gay and lesbian couples go inside to seek marriage licenses from city clerk 's office . city issues couples letters stating that same-sex marriages are illegal in state , but does offers them information on domestic partnerships . john_shields , mayor of nyack , ny , and his partner , bob_streams , are denied request for license from city clerk in orangetown . mayor jayson_west of new_paltz , who has been charged with 19 misdemeanors for solemnizing 25 same-sex marriages , plans to perform ` dozen or two ' more over weekend .
 prosecutors , opening new phase in washington-area sniper trial of john a muhammad , begin recreating morning of oct_3_, 2002 , when four people were killed in suburban maryland in less than three hours . plan to introduce evidence from at least 16 shootings , 10 of them fatal , in order to meet requirements of virginia death penalty laws , although muhammad is on trial only for oct_9_, 2002 , killing of dean h meyers in manassas , va .
 john_hodgman chronicle column reviews some new volumes of comic strips : megatokyo by fred_gallagher and rodney_caston . 100 bullets : samurai by brian_azzarello and eduardo_risso . clyde fans : book 1 by seth . the complete peanuts : 1950-1952 by charles_m_schulz . al capp 's l ' il abner . the frazetta years : volume 4 , 1960-1961 by al capp and frank_frazetta . amy_&_jordan by mark_beyer . and winsor_mccay : early works iii by winsor_mccay .
 court records show spanish authorities raised doubts about federal_bureau_of_investigation 's match of fingerprints on bag full of detonators found after mar train bombings in madrid to oregon lawyer brandon_mayfield weeks before his may 6 arrest . show fbi officials were so confident of match , based on digital copy , that they never bothered to look at original print while they were in madrid meeting with spanish investigators apr 21 . fbi returned to view original only after spaniards linked print to algerian . says use of copy of fingerprint is allowed by lab guidelines . plans review of how and when copies should be used .
 empire state_development_corp formally approves new_york jets ' proposed $ 2.2 billion stadium to be built over west side railyards . stadium is at center of city 's bid for 2012 olympics and its plans for neighborhood 's redevelopment , but has been subject of criticism and lawsuits . project still needs support of assembly speaker sheldon_silver and senate leader joseph_bruno , both of whom have expressed misgivings about plans . ultimate approval must come from public authorities control board , whose members are appointed by silver and bruno .
 richard m nixon_library and birthplace in yorba linda , calif , angers historians by canceling planned scholarly conference on pres nixon and vietnam war , which would have included historians critical of nixon 's record . in response , american_library_assn and 16 historians ask congress to suspend transfer of nixon materials to privately controlled library unless stronger public access requirements are guaranteed .
 boston red sox world series victory gives fox network badly needed boost , raising it from fourth to first place among viewers aged 18 to 49 . fox hopes to maintain momentum with unprecedented onslaught of reality programming . will devote 60 percent of its total schedule to reality shows until january , when some new scripted series and returning shows go on air . strategy risks killing off genre that has all but saved network television .
 about a dozen tamil guerrilla boats masquerading as fishing craft attack sri lankan navy vessels off mannar islet , damaging three of them . bodies of three sailors are recovered , while eight more are missing and feared dead . navy says it sank eight rebel vessels , killing 30 fighters on board . rebels deny navy account , saying two fighters were wounded and none lost .
 royal dutch / shell group reduces its proven oil and gas reserves by additional 10 percent , rattling investors yet again and increasing speculation that company will ultimately have to buy better-performing rival to compete with peers like exxon_mobil and bp . company reports net income of $ 4.48 billion in fourth_quarter , more than double $ 1.9 billion it earned in quarter_year_earlier .
 prime min ariel_sharon sets off realignment of israeli politics by quitting likud party he helped found and setting up national responsibility party to lay foundation for peace agreement . pres moshe katsav says early elections will probably be in march . some 14 likud members of parliament will join sharon as he tries to enlist range of centrists and labor party moderates . prof gerald_steinberg_syas_sharon is moving away from ideology toward pragmatism , his strong suit . analyst mark_heller sees sharon , labor and likud blocs , with more coherence in parliament . defense min shaul_mofaz says he will compete with benjamin_netanyahu for remainder of likud .
 supporters of military intervention in iraq include some longtime doves . their reasons for supporting military intervention vary : concerns about weapons of mass destruction that might be used against us or against israel , rethinking of america 's role after sept 11 or general belief that intervention is humanitarian response that will improve lives of iraqi people . they are united in belief that saddam hussein must be removed from power . reluctant war supporters include harvard dean joseph_nye , nobel peace laureate elie_wiesel and kenneth_pollack , former clinton administration official who opposed first persian_gulf war .
 bill clinton 's presidential library in little rock , ark , set for nov 18 opening , is $ 175-million project that , at 152,000 square feet , embodies his expansive postpresidential ambitions . photos . design of polshek_partnership architects is in shape of bridge , and includes park , archives and public policy school . presidential libraries are built with private money but , except for richard_nixon 's , are run by national_archives_and_records_administration , which estimates $ 4-million cost to run clinton library in first year . clinton foundation president skip rutherford says clinton plans to spend 7-10 days a month in glass-walled penthouse whose floor-to-ceiling windows will be visible from downtown little rock . kaki_hockersmith , who has done many elaborate interiors for clinton , hopes to push him in more modern direction .
 new_york_state_supreme_court -lrb- brooklyn -rrb- justice theodore t jones fines local 100 of transport workers union $ 2.5 million . orders union to suspend payroll deductions of union dues . union pres roger_toussaint vows union will appeal and calls fine unfair . union conducts second vote on contract terms , which mta says are no longer on table .
 anthony m tola , new_brunswick , nj , restaurateur , and john_koppenaal , owner of liquor store in plumsted township , nj , are still not selling french wine , which they dropped to protest france 's stand on iraq war.new_york_city and wings point associates try to resolve their litigation over development of landmark 1880 pier jutting into hudson_river from battery park . national_park_service and battery_park_city_authority also express interest in pier .
 matthew_purdy our towns column finds connecticut is giving new jersey competition in area of political corruption . cites trial of bridgeport , conn , mayor joseph_p_ganim and notes indictments of former waterbury_mayors_philip_a_giordano and joseph_santopietro . reviews new jersey 's corruption track record with rutgers prof ross_baker , who dismisses connecticut 's politicos as ` aspiring felons ' .
 shares of dreamworks_animation_skg tumble 13.2 percent after company lowers its earnings estimates because of disappointing dvd sales and also pulls back on planned $ 500 million stock offering . in addition , company says sec has started informal investigation of its securities after report on may 10 that news of disappointing first-quarter earnings had been released before company announcement .
 arrest of russia 's richest man , mikhail_b_khodorkovsky , and decision by russian government to freeze $ 14 billion worth of stock in yukos_oil , company khodorkovsky controls , is reminder to foreign investors how risky and volatile emerging markets can still be . russian trading system stock index has plunged 16.5 percent since khodorkovsky 's arrest , including its 8.1 percent decline on oct 30 . yukos affair has not led investors in russian markets or analysts to panic or make comparisons to 1998 , when russia defaulted on its debt and devalued its currency .
 kfc outlet in karachi , attacked four times by mobs since pakistan allied itself with us campaign against terrorism , is set on fire , killing six workers who are latest victims of anti-american fury and sectarian strains in pakistan 's largest city . photo . rafiq_rangoonwala , who owns 32 kfc outlets in country , is not sure he will reopen this time . shiite rampage followed suicide bombing of nearby shiite mosque by sunni extremists linked to al_qaeda .
 bush administration would love to enlist sudan 's arab-led government as ally in war on terrorism , but the more dictatorship wages wars on its own citizens , more impossible such alliance becomes . talks to end siege of black sudanese christians in south have proceeded over past year , but one million black muslims have been uprooted in west , amid massacres that are drawing comparisons to ethnic cleansing in balkans decade ago .
 eastern_office_of_bureau_of_indian_affairs decision to recommend approval of new_york_cayugas ' plan to open casino at monticello_raceway could go long way toward securing eventual full approval to build cayuga_catskill_resort and casino just 90 miles from new_york_city . plan requires approval of bureau_of_indian_affairs in washington -lrb- dc -rrb- , national_indian_gaming_commission and new_york state governor george_e_pataki .
 tata steel 's $ 7.7 billion acquisition of london-based corus group may be largest foreign deal by indian company , but tata plans to continue to grow . tata chairman ratan n tata says company 's next moves include some far-flung markets . tata group is looking to expand in vietnam , indonesia , south_africa , brazil , argentina and uruguay .
 pres bush , fighting to hang on to white_house , campaigns furiously at raucous rallies in six states across country , five of them too close to call and all essential to victory if he loses florida . photo in milwaukee . 19-hour marathon ends with return to texas ranch . laura_bush goes separately to ohio and michigan . vice pres cheney is dispatched to hawaii and then colorado .
 congress debates changes in medicare payments to hospitals that could greatly reduce payments that new_york_city 's teaching hospitals receive while increasing payments to rural hospitals nationally . overall , compared to 2002 levels , hospitals nationwide could lose up to to $ 5.4 billion over 10 years , $ 2.1 billion of that coming from new_york 's share depending on how various house and senate bills are resolved . voting in both sides breaks down along party lines , but northeast republicans are at odds with rest of party .
 kenneth_g_langone , who as chairman of new_york_stock_exchange_compensation_committee approved richard_a_grasso 's richest deals , defends $ 139.5 million pay package that forced grasso to resign , interview . denies he allowed his friendship with grasso to color his judgment . scores board members who endorsed contract and later turned on grasso as furor built . holds interim chairman john_s_reed has heightened tensions at exchange . photos . recipe .
 death toll in truck bombing at hospital in mozdok , russia , rises to 41 , with perhaps 17 people still missing . at least 77 others are wounded , some of them gravely . attack , eighth involving suicide bombers since mid-may , appears to be part of new campaign by chechnya 's separatist guerrillas to escalate war and extend its violence beyond province . increases fear and anger across russia , especially in mozdok , which is just 35 miles from chechen border .
 iaea chief mohamed elbaradei 's one-day visit to iran ends with no agreement by iranians to halt production of enriched uranium . european diplomats report iran has shown inspectors evidence they are preparing to double size of their small-scale production facilities within weeks . pres mahmoud ahmadinejad issues defiant taunt , but also uncharacteristically acknowledges that ` cowards ' inside iran warn against confronting west , russia and china . us intelligence official thomas_fingar says official view remains that iran is unlikely to have nuclear weapons before 2010 . kenneth_brill of national counterprolifreation center cautions against accepting iran 's claims on face value .
 just-released report from justice_dept_inspector_general_glenn a fine cites five chances fbi missed in months before 9/11 attacks to find two hijackers as they prepared for attacks and settled in san_diego . says investigators were stymied by bureaucratic obstacles , communication breakdowns and lack of urgency . report has been kept secret for year . its blistering findings mirror those of independent 9/11 commission last summer and joint congressional inquiry in 2002 . it also provides significant new details about many bureaucratic breakdowns that plagued fbi before attacks . it is likely to fuel questions about bureau 's efforts to remake itself . missed opportunities with san_diego hijackers detailed . one problem involved fbi 's cumbersome computer system , which is still beset by problems today . report stops short of recommending disciplinary action against any fbi employees .
 opponents of hong_kong government 's proposed internal security laws vow to surround legislative council with protesters when it takes up bill next week . signs emerge of possible split among pro-government political parties over how to proceed . furor created by proposed new laws raises possibility that opposition parties could win legislative council elections next year , producing first pro-democracy legislature in people 's republic of china since communists won china 's civil war in 1949 . struggle over security laws represents biggest political challenge to government since britain handed over hong_kong to china in 1997 .
 carl and clarence_aguirre , two-year-old filipino twins joined at top of heads , are set to undergo surgical separation , fourth and possibly final operation in series of procedures performed at montefiore_hospital in new_york over last 11 months . drs david_a_staffenberg and james_t_goodrich explain rare , gradual approach intended to ` get two fully functional boys ' .
 article on medfone_inc , round-the-clock nationwide call center based in wantagh , ny , whose clients include doctors , hospitals , medical labs , pharmacies , drug companies and suffolk_county health department . founder , owner and chief executive rabbi jay_weinstein says medfone is answering service , sets up appointments , screens calls for doctors and handles appointment reminders , prescription renewals , test results and conducts patient satisfaction surveys . company , with revenue of about $ 10 million a year , handles about 10,000 calls a day on 240 phone lines .
 interviews with about three dozen nassau_county employees from nine agencies offer mixed assessments of county executive thomas_suozzi 's first year in office . some laud suozzi for ridding county of patronage jobs , rewarding workers based on merit and improving productivity with new computer systems . other say morale is at all-time low because they are being pushed to make up for 930 laid off workers .
 st bonaventure_university_board_of_trustees requests and receives resignation of president dr robert_j_wickenheiser and places coach jan van breda_kolff , athletic director gothard_lane and assistant coach kort_wickenheiser , president 's son , on leave in response to recruiting violations by men 's basketball team that forced forfeit of six atlantic 10 conference wins .
 dexter_filkins article says that us military and diplomatic efforts in iraq are now being conducted with careful planning and concentrated thinking that seemed to vanish the moment american troops entered baghdad on april 9_, 2003 . adds , however , that new approach may have come too late to achieve stable iraq , citing prospect of reduction of us forces in iraq and rise in sectarian violence .
 fighting erupts in iraq between followers of rebellious shiite cleric moktada al-sadr and his opponents in holy city of najaf , killing at least four people and wounding at least 20 . members of sadr 's mahdi_army storm baghdad offices of competing shiite party led by prime min ibrahim_al-jaafari . clashes also break out in basra between sadr fighters and militiamen supporting third shiite religious group .
 article on new jersey as literary region , whose writers consistently link new jersey symbols -- working class , industrial skyline and shore , with larger american dilemmas and myths . author , critic and paris review editor george_plimpton , in interview , says state 's habitues are more extraordinary than in any other eastern_state . university of scranton president rev scott_pilarz says new_jersey_school rivals that of south . work of walt_whitman , philip_roth , tom_perotta , william_carlos_williams and other new jersey writers discussed .
 article on housing slump on long_island , especially suffolk_county , as municipalities impose building moratoriums and officials study land-use policies and consider ways to control growth . long_island builders institute reports number of housing starts declined by 29 percent from 2000 through 2004 . builders and planners say that because local slowdown was not caused by lack of demand , number of housing starts will likely bounce back as remaining moratoriums run out .
 thousands of skilled foreign professionals working legally in united_states are confonting ballooning immigration-services backlog , with mostly routine paperwork they need to work and travel taking many months to obtain . processing times for everything from renewing annual work permit to securing permanent legal residence have as much as quadrupled over last_18_months , despite bush administration 's pledge to cut waiting times in half . wait to replace lost green card has grown to 19 months from four . document allowing foreign worker to re-enter country after brief trip takes seven months instead of two . as result , number of pending applications has risen by 60 percent over last three years despite infusion of $ 160 million earmaked for cutting backlog . officials say root cause is post-9 / 11 reassignment of 1,000 agents who used to issue documents and now do extensive security checks of every applicant instead .
 article on opposition from mandingo_tshaka , sam_dagrossa and other local residents to plan to subdivide and build on wooded half-acre hill in douglaston , queens . 1932 map shows cornell_cemetery , once connected to new life baptist church , existed from 1841 to 1870 's and that four bodies are still buried there .
 coalition for homeless says number of homeless families living in new_york_city shelters reached record high of 9,287 in february , despite mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's five-year plan , announced in 2004 , to reduce numbers by two-thirds . says number of homeless families being moved into permanent housing fell 11 percent in 2006 .
 editorial observer by helene_cooper on elections in liberia last_week . says good news is that 1.3 million of country 's 3 million people registered to vote , there were 22 candidates for president and hundreds for seats in senate and house of representatives , and campaign was remarkably peaceful . says front-runner george_weah , former soccer star , has no experience in government but would be better than several warlords who are also on the ballot .
 amazonas opera festival stages wagner 's four-part ring of the nibelungen cycle in manaus , brazil , in heart of amazon rain forest . site chosen for performances is celebrated teatro_amazonas , built in late 1800 's . this is first time wagner 's most renowned and challenging work has been produced and performed in brazil . significance of event has attracted opera devotees from throughout brazil as well as from europe and north_america .
 telecommuting opens doors for disabled people who are unable to get to office . nbc news producer janet_pearce , who is confined to wheelchair , splits her time between home and office , giving her days off from arduous commuting . estimates show seven percent of employed people with disabilities work 20 hours or more per week from home and figure is expected to grow significantly in next decade .
 anti-syrian alliance claims stunning majority victory in final round of lebanon 's parliamentary elections . bloc led by saad_hariri wins at least 21 of 28 contested seats in northern lebanon , last polling area , giving it majority in next 128-seat parliament . assassination of hariri 's father , former prime min rafik_hariri , touched off demonstrations and rebellion four months ago . election is first to be held in nearly 30 years without presence of syrian troops . but results do not appear strong enough for anti-syrian opposition to achieve its goal of ousting emile_lahoud , lebanese president handpicked by syria , whose term was extended by constitutional amendment ordered by syria last sept .
 nationwide study on day laborers finds that three-quarters of 117,600 workers are illegal immigrants , with 59 percent coming from mexico . only small number earn more than $ 15,000 a year . most surprising finding was pervasiveness of wage violations and dangerous conditions day laborers face . report says employers often put day laborers into dangerous jobs that regular workers are reluctant to do , often with minimal training and safety equipment .
 tension between outsiders and residents of philadelphia , miss , still reverberates , 41 years after murder of civil rights workers michael_schwerner , andrew_goodman and james_earl_chaney . allegiances and grievances of residents posed particular problem when it came to selecting jury for trial of edgar_ray_killen , accused of orchestrating murders . his defense subtly underscored fact that many involved in case in 1964 were not from area .
 editorial notes that prime min tony_blair has staked britain 's presidency of group of 8 industrial nations on tackling poverty in africa . contends that pres bush could take giant step toward altering way world views us by joining blair in pushing for more help in africa . holds that thousands of people are dying there every day of preventable diseases . says we are first generation able to afford to end poverty and disease its spawns .
 administrative law judge_joann m ruggiero rules agriculture_department wrongly suspended federal meat inspectors james_l_peterson and patrick_h_mchale for helping investigators uncover abuses among inspectors in new_york and new jersey . case is one of several in which inspectors say they faced retaliation for virorously enforcing regulations in meat plants or citing weaknesses in new inspection system .
 goldman_sachs , new_york investment bank , and wildlife conservation society at bronx zoo have formed partnership to purchase two large tracts of land in tierra_del_fuego for new nature reserve . steven_e_sanderson , wildlife conservation society president , reports that reserve will be administered from chilean patagonia and will involve local leaders in its advisory council . guanacos , south american relative of camel that once numbered 30 million but have dwindled to less than 500,000 today , are among animals that will be protected . unique attributes of region described .
 nato mounts largest offensive since taking command of southern afghanistan last_year , attacking hundreds of taliban and foreign insurgents in helmand_province . four soldiers have died in last_eight_days . heavy fighting rages in sangin , one of main opium trading centers , as up to 1,000 taliban exchange fire with british troops .
 pres bush arrives in guatemala city and is confronted with anger over american immigration policy . pres oscar berger uses ceremonial welcome to criticize recent arrest of several hundred illegal workers , many of them guatemalans , in massachusetts . remark reflects longstanding anger over deportation of guatemalans from united_states . american official traveling in bush delegation says timing of massachusetts raid served to inflame already emotional issue , adding more passion to anti-bush protests .
 article on gary_stochl , 58 , who until october 2003 had been unknown and unpaid street photographer in chicago , ill . stochl , who has produced tens of thousands of prints since age 17 , has quickly ascended in chicago art world . prominent chicago photography dealer shashi_caudill sells stochl 's vintage prints for $ 1,500 each , which have been acquired by art_institute_of_chicago and several local collectors .
 some families of those killed in downing of pan_am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , express relief that libya has accepted responsibility for bombing after 14 years . others say libya has not made honest admission of guilt . about 40 family members receive hour-long briefing on contours of deal by secretary of state_colin_l_powell and asst sec william_j_burns .
 state of ohio is demanding that nuclear waste at weapons plant near cincinnati be left where it is , in silos , because dump in nevada where uranium ore is supposed to go may no longer be available . legel standoff threatens to idle about 240 workers and bring to halt 12-year , $ 4.4-billion effort to clean up plant . cleanup is costing $ 1 million a day . nevada is already suing energy dept over plans to bury high-level waste at yucca_mountain . environmental protection agency agrees that processing should not go forward until destination is clear .
 article on still relatively rare but increasing instances of retailers who are purchasing their own retail space , either as condominiums or co-ops . real capital analytics reports $ 1.2 billion worth of retail condos across country were sold in 2004 and 2005 combined , compared with $ 120.8 million in 2002 and 2003 . average sales price rose from $ 441 per square foot to $ 995 .
 developers are forging ahead with plans to build at least six new hotels in dutchess_county , ny , in effort that local officials and real estate executives say is unusually active and aht could cause significant changes to county 's lodging landscape . hotel demand is growing in county , while it is generally down in many parts of country . companies building hotels include extended stay america , hilton_corp , marriott_corp , true north hotel group and foss_group_beacon .
 pres bush hails iraq 's coming parliamentary election as ` remarkable event ' in arab world , but says voting would not bring end to violence . says iraq is still threatened by iran , syria and its own religious and ethnic tensions . for first time bush puts number on approximate numbers of iraqis killed -- 30,000 -- since beginning of american-led invasion . this is third of four speeches bush is giving in recent weeks aimed at trying to build up sagging public support for war in iraq .
 editorial praises center for governmental research and empire center for new_york state policy for posting on web details of how as much as $ 1 billion a year has been spent on pet projects approved by new_york gov george_pataki , senate majority leader joseph_bruno and assembly speaker sheldon_silver .
 director oliver_stone builds scale model of lower manhattan in los_angeles for filming of movie world trade center , which tells story of two police officers who were last rescue workers pulled from ground zero alive . some of footage is also shot in new_york metropolitan area , and film is billed as uplifting story about everyday new yorkers helping one another amid terrorist attacks of september 11_, 2001 .
 op-ed article by anthony_lewis , former times columnist , on sen lindsey_graham 's amendment that would nullify supreme_court 's june 2004 decision that prisoners being held at guantanamo_bay could challenge their detentions in federal court . says graham 's amendment would make it difficult to enforce sen john_mccain 's proposed law forbidding cruel , inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees in american custody , proposal that graham supports . says graham amendment is especially troubling at time when much of world is disturbed by treatment of prisoners at guantanamo .
 article on progress being made on renovation and expansion of museum of modern art 's building in manhattan , which is set to reopen on november 20 . scaffolding has been removed from building 's west 54th street side . new museum encompasses about 630,000 square feet on six floors . total exhibition space will increase to 125,000 square feet from 85,000 .
 move by benard_b_kerik_from_times_square_offices_of_giuliani_partners to washington , where he has been nominated to become secretary of homeland security , will present opportunity and challenge for former mayor rudolph w giuliani . it will draw more attention to giuliani_partners , which over last_three_years has made tens of millions of dollars helping corporations expand their homeland security sales . move will also require giuliani and kerik to avoid even appearance of conflict of interest .
 peter_franzone testifies at trial of former detectives louis j eppolito and stephen_caracappa that he buried body of israel greenwald at his garage in brooklyn . says he was ordered to do so by frank_santora jr , cousin of eppolito . says santora went into garage with man who looked like caracappa while eppolito waited outside in car . detectives are accused of killing eight men for organized crime figures , including greenwald . burton_kaplan allegedly paid them $ 30,000 to kill greenwald over ill-fated deal between them .
 daimler-chrysler confirms that it is considering bids to sell its troubled chrysler_group , which lost $ 1.5 billion last year . daimler 's chief executive dieter_zetsche , trying to placate restive shareholders at annual meeting , says several companies have shown interest . but he does not identify suitors nor does he guarantee that talks would end in sale . three bidders are said to be equity firms blackstone_group and cerberus_capital_management and magna_international , canadian auto parts supplier . rumors of sale began when zetsche disclosed in mid-feb that company was thinking anew about future of its american outpost . latest disclosure is likely to add momentum for deal .
 sierra pacific resources faces prospect of bankruptcy if required to pay enron_corp hundreds of millions of dollars for electricity enron never really delivered to two sierra_utilities in nevada . bankruptcy court has so far sided with enron in dispute , and sierra is expected to ask federal_energy_regulatory_commission to take charge of controversy and invalidate payment requirement . at issue in sierra 's kafkaesque situation are series of long-term energy contracts entered into in 2000 and 2001 by sierra 's nevada_power_co and sierra_pacific_power co with enron_power_management .
 laurel graeber family fare column discusses pippi and her friends : a celebration of astrid lindgren and swedish children 's literature at scandinavia_house , tibet and yak exhibit , part of thanksgiving family festival at newark museum , and broadway sings the odd potato , concert musical by eileen_bluestone_sherman and gail_c_bluestone at peter_norton symphony space .
 article on dearth of passengers at new_jersey_transit 's $ 609 million frank_r_lautenberg_rail station at secaucus junction , nj . ambitious development plans at sprawling , year-old station , hailed by governor and executive director of new_jersey_transit as one that would revolutionize transportation in state , have stalled . riders complain of long waits on platforms that reek of marsh_smell , waiting rooms that are hot in summer and cold in winter and lack of parking . transit officials see station as great investment and catalyst for rail connections to other parts of state .
 blackwater usa air taxi which crashed in afghanistan on nov_27_, 2004 , was not subject to military or federal_aviation_administration safety rules , and standard safeguards were not observed . distinction may have contributed to crash and may put at risk thousands of military passengers and thousands of tons of cargo annually by contractors in war zones . two us-flag carriers do military contracting in country , putting other flights in peril due to regulation gaps .
 fire at boarding school for the deaf in makhachkala , russia , kills 28 of its 166 students . 22 others are still in intensive care . one child uses gestures to describe his escape . russians are stunned by fire , which comes less than week after fire kills 22 schoolchildren in wooden schoolhouse in remote siberian village .
 article on fan reaction to new line cinema 's trilogy tuesday , presentation of extended cuts of first two lord of the rings films followed by premiere of third installment , the return of the king . scene described at loews 42nd street e-walk theater in manhattan , one of 125 places in us and canada where trilogy was shown .
 jim_rutenberg analysis holds that state_supreme_court justice doris_ling-cohan ` s ruling against new_york_city making gay marriage legal threw mayor michael_r_bloomberg and his election team their first real test of campaign . contends that bloomberg 's solution , to pledge support for gay marriage while also announcing that city will appeal decision to ensure that higher court is in agreement with it , drew criticism from those on both sides of debate , but may have bought him some time .
 california justice janice_rogers_brown , controversial nominee to federal appellate bench , last month delivered little-noticed speech to catholic_group in connecticut in which she said religious values in america are imperiled by ` increasingly secular culture ' . such staunchly conservative views and background as poor southern_black_recall_justice_clarence_thomas . some of brown 's scathing opinions and public remarks , which she has dismissed as ` just speeches , ' quoted .
 us soldiers battle iraqi insurgents led by rebel_shiite_cleric_moktada_al-sadr . reportedly kill at least 25 insurgents in karbala , 12 in najaf and at least 41 in two separate battles around kufa . firefights are most intense since us military started operation in karbala on may 6 to crush sadr 's thousands-strong militia . sadr delivers defiant sermon in kufa that dismisses pres bush 's expressions of regret for abuse of iraqi prisoners .
 ayad allawi , iraq 's interim prime minister , is about to make his first trip to us as america 's chief partner in iraq . allawi was popular among moderate iraqis in first weeks after his government took over in june , but his grace period has expired . he was chosen to lead iraq to democratic future , but he is sealed off from ordinary iraqis , in virtual certainty that insurgents will kill him .
 brookings institution report finds that us cities are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to build convention halls at feverish pace , even as convention industry is contracting and attendance is falling . report raises questions about wisdom of joining convention hall space race . new_york_state_legislature in 2004 approved $ 1.4 billion plan to add 575,000 square feet of meeting and exhibit space to jacob k javits convention center .
 john_clancy helped found new_york international fringe festival , but resigned in 2001 to concentrate on directing , writing and producing , including working on one-woman show by wife nancy_walsh . couple is back in new_york with plans to produce four plays in three months . plays are : fatboy , screwmachine / eyecandy , americana absurdum and the complete lost works of samuel_beckett .
 procter_&_gamble_co and colgate-palmolive , which take in 84 percent of money americans spend on tooth whiteners , are trying to attract new customers with offshoot products for nighttime use . two companies have risked competing with their own daytime whiteners and tangled over charges of false advertising . americans spent nearly $ 297 million on home-use whitening products for 52 weeks ended march 23 .
 pres bush says that sharp increase in projected cost of new medicare prescription drug benefit will not prevent him from meeting his goal of cutting federal budget deficit in half during next five years . says administration 's estimate of bill 's cost over next 10 years is $ 134 billion higher than $ 400 billion projected by congressional_budget_office and used by congress when it passed bill in 2003 .
 david_marvisi sells upper_east_side_town_house once owned by irene_silverman , woman murdered as part of scheme to steal residence , to investors led by dominion_group for $ 10 million . investors plan to renovte it and resell it as two luxury triplexes . developer aby j rosen successfully battles eviction from upper_east side town house bought by sharon_goldman as he renovates another town house he plans to move to . goldman and husband , richard , face eviction from their rental triplex . records show william_s_taubman is mystery buyer of gracie_square duplex that was former home of madame_chiang_kai-shek .
 state officials plan to widen 21-mile stretch of new_jersey_turnpike , adding two lanes between exit 8a in jamesburg and exit 6 , where highway connector leads to pennsylvania turnpike . respond to pennsylvania decides to build new interchange where its trunpike meets spur from new jersey turnpike . $ 1.3 billion is expected to be financed by higher tolls and possibly higher fuel tax . 120,000 vehicles a day pass through section , where new warehouses and distribution centers have increased truck traffic and new housing has increased automobile traffic .
 general motors says soaring health care costs and continuing problems with its european division caused fourth-quarter profits to fall by more than one third . says it does not expect its performance in current quarter to be much better . net income was $ 630 million , down from $ 1 billion year earlier . net income for 2004 was $ 3.6 billion , decline of about 5 percent from $ 3.8 billion in 2003 .
 article on deficits and staff layoffs that are adversely impacting services at nassau_university_medical_center . hospital , busiest on long_island , sees 420,000 patients each year . eight percent of inpatients and 26 percent of outpatients are uninsured . nassau_county and other governments subsidize about $ 50 million out of $ 70 million worth of uninsured services . nassau_health_care_corp is awash in red ink .
 pres bush 's proposed $ 726 billion tax cut has been slashed , victim mainly of rebellion by some senate republicans who declined to go along with his supply-side economic agenda . but bush is making it clear that he does not intend to give up without fight , and there is considerable confidence within administration that he can use his political capital to force cut back up toward $ 500 billion or $ 550 billion .
 irs restores tax-exempt status of charitable organization that helped fund lectures by newt_gingrich , unusual reversal that opens potentially large loophole in new federal campaign-finance restrictions and allows more political activity by charities . howard h callaway_jr , prominent georgia republican and longtime friend of vice pres cheney , has fought irs for five years over his abraham_lincoln_opportunity_foundation , now defunct . his photo .
 race against time , new book by stephen_lewis , united_nations ' special envoy to africa on aids , singles out south_africa 's government and pres thabo_mbeki for what he calls bewildering policies and lackadaisical approach to treatment of nation 's millions of hiv-positive citizens . holds that virtually every other nation in eastern and southern_africa is ` working harder at treatment , ' and with relatively fewer resources than south_africa . lewis claims he has been banned from traveling to south_africa unless he apologizes for his remarks .
 immigration officials arrest luis_posada_carriles , cuban exile suspected in deadly airplane bombing and other atttacks , weeks after he slipped into united_states and shortly after he withdrew application for political asylum . bush administration faced growing pressure from cuba and its ally venezuela to extradite him . critics had questioned why united_states would not root out suspected terrorist , even one hailed by cuban exiles as freedom fighter against fidel_castro . as homeland security dept detains 77-year-old posada , hundreds of thousands of cubans in havana participate in protest march against him .
 more than 90 new_york elected officials ask amalgamated transit union to hold public hearings on corruption charges involving union 's local 1181 in new_york_city . say they have received complaints from bus drivers in local that they have been threatened with physical harm and firings . contend that little has changed since local officials salvatore_battaglia , julius_bernstein and ann_chiarovano were indicted in 2005 on charges of being under influence of genovese crime family .
 new_york_city health and metal hygiene dept reports that 1 of 7 adults in city say their health is frequently not good , compared with 1 in 10 adults nationwide . 13 percent of adults report their mental health as not good on 14 or more days of month , compared to 10 percent in similar national survey .
 former state sen dino_rossi , republican who was declared winner in race for governor of washington state by just 261 votes , wins recount by mere 42 votes of almost three million cast . democrats say vote is too close for their candidate , state atty gen christine_gregoire , to concede . they will request third count , this one by hand .
 police officers michael_carey , marc_cooper , paul_headley and one other detective involved in shooting of sean_bell at queens_nightclub on nov 25 voluntarily speak to prosecutors . decision poses risk if officer decides to change story later when prosecutors can attack any inconsistencies . officer michael_oliver , who fired 31 of 50 shots at bell , has not spoken to prosecutors . it is unclear if he will do so prior to grand jury investigation .
 one of nation 's fastest-growing security companies in wake of 9/11 terror attacks is akal security , wholly owned by sikh_dharma , religious compound in new mexico . akal has 12,000 employees and $ 1 billion in contracts to protect vital and sensitive government sites , from military installations to federal courts to airports and water supply systems . sikh dharma members say they are following ancient sikh tradition of warrior-saint . it is thought to be only security company owned by nonprofit religious organization . it has been generous campaign contributor to both democratic and republican candidates at federal level . sect official mukta_kaur_khalsa has met with pres bush in white_house and in new mexico .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg says gov george_e_pataki will remain his friend even though they disagree over bond deal that could save new_york city $ 500 million a year . other city officials are harsher in their criticism of pataki . pataki spokesman say governor still hopes to negotiate agreement on bond issue with city .
 article on computer software , donated by microsoft with help of research scientist michael_schroeder and his microsoft colleagues andrew_birrell and edward_wobber , that has enabled oregon_shakespeare_festival in ashland , ore , to computerize its productions . software , valued at $ 150,000 , cues lights , positions scenery , keeps track of props and costumes , projects synchronized video , sells tickets and administers database of festival members .
 six more american soldiers in iraq are killed by homemade bombs that military officers say are becoming increasingly sophisticated and effective . one soldier is killed by roadside bomb west of baghdad , and three more while on patrol in southeast_baghdad . attack in tikrit day before kills two soldiers . officers say new explosives are smaller , can be planted more quickly and are being detonated from greater distances . bombs remain leading cause of american casualties since end of major combat operations on may 1 . countermeasures range from surveillance planes to ground patrols who fire at suspected explosives to detonate them .
 property taxes in new_york state have increased by 60 percent since 1996 , three times rate of inflation over last five years . are highest in nation , 28 percent higher than national average , and consume disproportionate level of income of new yorkers . suburban homeowners bear biggest burden . costs are attributed to soaring property values and rising cost of education , medicaid and pensions . new_york_city homeowners fare well compared with suburban counterparts because city relies on income taxes to pay for services .
 sen john_kerry , campaigning in iowa , seizes on missing cache of high explosives in iraq as evidence that pres bush 's ` incredible incompetence ' has put american troops at risk . bush , campaigning in colorado , does not mention missing explosives , instead charging that kerry 's defense policy would be to ` cut and run ' . bush 's aides try to explain why american forces ignored warnings from international atomic eenrgy agency in mar 2003 about vulnerability of huge stockpile of high explosives because of looting . white_house spokesman scott_mcclellan insists that bush wants to ` get to the bottom of this , ' then tries to distance bush from knowledge of issue . as kerry uses news to bolster his contention that bush lacks competence to act as commander in chief , bush aides acccuse kerry of being willing to say anything to be elected .
 article profiles ben_wood , who over last five years has transformed himself from successful boston architect into shanghai powerbroker whose designs translate into billions of dollars in development . critics say he has undermined need to preserve china 's fast-vanishing architectural heritage with pastiche that is similar to disneyland . wood 's career reviewed .
 w r berkley_corp says patricia_rowland , wife of connecticut gov john_g_rowland , was invited to conference at key largo , fla , in 2003 , and was paid $ 15,000 to speak on life in political family . says gov rowland did not speak there and company paid couple 's expenses . rowland 's in-house counsel said earlier that rowland attended conference in official capacity and delivered address . berkley held $ 22.8 million contract for administering workers ' compensation claims between 1997 and 2001 .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column praises bush administration for acknowledging genocide in darfur but calls on bush to turn up heat on sudan . urges france and germany to stand with united_states on issue . questions why islamic world appears not to care about dead sudanese , virtually all of them muslims . applauds united_nations world food program but contends un as whole , and sec gen kofi_annan personally , have failed to respond to atrocities .
 food and drug adm gives abiomed_inc approval to sell first fully implantable artificial heart , device that lets patients move about freely for up to two hours at time . approval was given though device was implanted in just 14 male patients , and all have died . longest survivor lived 512 days , when mechanical heart failed . device costs $ 250,000 and it is unclear whether health insurance will cover costs . fda official says device is significant advance in artificial heart technology .
 op-ed article by william_j_perry and ashton_b_carter , former secretary of defense and assistant secretary of defense in clinton adminsitration , recalls their involvment in preparation for possible military strike on north_korea 's nuclear reactor complex at yongbyon in 1994 . says today 's crisis with north_korea is eerily similar to that one . says war was averted then , and it can be again now . offers detailed strategy .
 united_airlines ' new low-fare carrier ted lowers fare prices three weeks before making its first flights . fare reduction is in response to price caps at ted 's chief rival frontier_airlines . united says ted , which begins operations feb 12 , will cost no more than $ 299 each way , plus $ 10 fuel surchage .
 america 's merchants are not only going back to archives for their fashion designs , they are going back to past for their advertising . fall book for barneys_features_modish_model_maria_carla in poses reminiscent of those struck for barneys by linda_evangelista , famous fashion model of late 1980 's . evangelista is wearing 1950 's - influenced fashion in antique 1980 's ads as is maria_carla . other apparel retailers that are promoting archival looks include pendleton_woolen_mills , brooks_brothers and paul_stuart .
 tax returns show gov george e pataki and wife libby 's taxable income increased 47 percent , to $ 775,169 , from year ago , thanks to windfall profit from sale of florida property . gubernatorial aspirant william f weld 's taxes show $ 327,524 capital loss after losing all of $ 530,000 investment in failed kentucky_trade_school_decker_college .
 american airstrikes aimed at iraqi insurgents in zobaa , village south of falluja , kill at least 44 people and injure 27 others . us has been relying on airstrikes to chip away at insurgent forces around iraq . more intense offensives may be necessary to quell resistance ahead of elections in january . separately , car bomb at police checkpoint in baghdad kills at least three people and wounds at least 37 others .
 signs of strain emerge seven months after india and pakistan begin peace effort . pakistani officials are frustrated about failure of two countries to engage in detailed discussion of kashmir , disputed territory that has sparked two wars , and indian officials accuse pakistan of failing to dismantle militants ' camps . they charge that infiltration of pakistan-backed militants into indian-controlled portion of kashmir has resumed in recent weeks .
 new_york_city officials say 20-year building boom on staten_island has drastically declined , with new building permits falling by 43 percent in 2006 . say staten_island decline accounted for 10 percent drop in building permits citywide . declines in other boroughs noted . officials attribute staten_island decline to zoning and tax abatement changes .
 president jacques_chirac_of_france_inaugurates_musee_du_quai_branly in paris , which will be devoted entirely to non-western art . museum is first major museum to open in paris since musee d ' orsay in 1986 . gallery space will display 3,500 objects of museum 's 300,000 works from africa , asia , oceania and americas .
 police in china say they have detained six people in connection with assertions that hundreds of japanese tourists hired similar numbers of local prostitutes and staged public display of promiscuity at luxury hotel in city of zhuhai on sensitive anniversary in sino-japanese relations , day that china records as start of japanese occupation of manchuria in 1931 .
 anthony_tommasini critic 's notebook on 10th anniversary benefit performance by original cast member of jonathan_larson musical rent , which raised more than $ 2 million for new_york theater workshop , friends in deed and jonathan_larson performing arts foundation . recalls his first viewing of rent , dress rehearsal for broadway opening , and interview he conducted with larson hours before his sudden death at age 35 . compares current rent production with original off-broadway production .
 court battle over anna_nicole_smith 's burial place appears to speed up after judge_larry_seidlin gets urgent call from medical examiner joshua_perper . perper warns judge_seidlin body of smith , who died in south_florida hotel on feb 8 , is decomposing much faster than expected despite recent embalming . howard k stern , smith 's companion , wants her buried beside her son in bahamas . smith 's mother , virgie arthur , wants her buried in texas .
 editorial observer by adam_cohen says case of georgia_thompson , wisconsin state employee found to have been wrongly convicted and jailed , raises questions about united_states attorneys who kept their jobs amid firing of eight others . holds that us atty steven_biskupic in milwaukee turned flimsy case against thompson into campaign issue that nearly helped republicans defeat democratic gov jim_doyle 's re-election bid . suggests that biskupic knew that his bosses in washington expected him to use his position to help republicans win elections , and then did what they wanted .
 wally_klump has spent last year in jail for refusing to remove 28 cows from bureau_of_land_management_property in dos_cabezas_mountains of southern arizona that his family has ranched for 100 years . environmental regulations curtailed agricultural operations and grazing rights in 1970 's , and bureau_and_forest_service staked claims to water if ranchers abandon their properties . klump fears he will lose water rights if he removes cows and has threatened to shoot government officials who try to remove his cattle .
 royal dutch shell reaches agreement with local communities allowing it to return safely to niger_delta one year after being forced to shut more than half its oil operations in nigeria . expects to resume full production within five to six months . shell lost about 500,00 barrels per day in production from its fields in western part of delta after rebel group called movement_for_emancipation_of_niger_delta attacked several production and export operations in early 2006 , forcing their closings . continuing violence in region has curtailed up to fifth of nigeria 's total oil production .
 new_york_city is beginning vast $ 200 million effort to make itself more attractive , as well as more convenient , for modern cruising vessels and their luggage-laden passengers . overhaul has begun on 70-year-old passenger ship terminal on west side of manhattan . construction is scheduled to begin in march on new cruise terminal in vacant area that surrounds pier 12 in red hook section of brooklyn . plans call for terminal building that will be able to accommodate 4,000 passengers , parking space for about 500 cars and pier that will be able to accomodate ships that are more than 1,100 feet long .
 jury in virginia sentences john a muhammad to death for directing washington-area sniper killings that left ten people dead last year . jurors express dismay at his steely lack of remorse through emotionally wrenching six-week trial . photos . sentence is victory for prosecutor paul_b_ebert and atty gen_ashcroft , who took case away from montgomery_county , maryland , site of 6 killings , and had muhammad tried in prince william_county for shooting of dean h meyers .
 national_research_council_of_national academies of sciences issues report warning that 40 percent of earth-observing instruments on nasa satellites will become inoperable by 2010 . says that decline will leave scientists unable to monitor climate changes and changes in other natural resources around world . suggests that at least $ 3 billion year be spent on satellite missions and new instruments through 2020 .
 article on entrepreneurial culture within israeli_army . izhar shay , former paratrooper and chief executive of v-secure technologies in saddle brook , nj , and other veterans say israeli soldiers are trained to think quickly and act nimbly , adjusting to circumstances rather than waiting for orders . as result , disproportionate number of israel veterans begin their own businesses , often in highly technical fields . israeli start-ups , numbering 70 out of 340 listed on nasdaq , have raised more than $ 5.2 billion in initial public offerings over last five years .
 growing number of advertisers are using openly gay and lesbian celebrities aimed not at homosexual market but at wider general audience . advertisers involved include american_express , audi , cartier , chili 's , diageo , marshall field 's , general_motors , target , volkwagen and wrigley . are hiring personalities like singers k d lang and melissa_etheridge , designers isaac_mizrahi and todd_oldham , actor john_cameron_mitchell and former football player esera_tuaolo , along with five members of cast of queer eye for the straight guy .
 library system in smithtown , li , asks town for $ 1.15 million bailout , citing sharp increases in health insurance , payments to state pension plan and need to submit budget nine months before fiscal year begins . some residents question wisdom of vote three years ago to create independent library district free of financial support of town .
 nbc announces that conan_o'brien will succeed jay_leno as host of tonight show when leno 's contract expires in 2009 . deal guarantees o'brien , host of nbc 's late night , will serve at least two years as host of tonight . leno says when he signed his new contract he felt timing was right to plan for his successor and ` there is no one more qualified than conan . ` photo .
 us military is investigating accusations that soldiers raped iraqi woman in her home and killed her and three family members , including child . alleged rape and killings took place march 12 in vicinity of mahmudiya , insurgent stronghold near baghdad . us officials say investigation involves five soldiers from 502nd infantry regiment . say one soldier has admitted his role and has been arrested , and others are confined to their base . two soldiers from unit were abducted in town of yusufiya and killed by insurgents in early june . russian government offers $ 10 million for information leading to killers of five embassy workers in baghdad .
 article on decline in number of general aviation or public-use airports in new jersey . 37 airports have closed since 1950 , dropping total to 45 . high operating costs , community hostility and soaring land values are cited as reasons for decline . new jersey , seeking to prevent sprawl , has acquired or helped municipalities and counties acquire five airports and is acquiring eight more , in part with federal funds .
 james_r_olson , who recently retired as chief washington lobbyist of toyota_motor_corp , says that with 35,000 american employees and $ 14 billion invested in dealerships , development centers and factories across country , toyota is well armed to turn back protectionist measures urged on government by detroit . expects to remain as consultant to toyota , where he was interpreter of american ways for succession of japanese executives who were initially skittish about having too large a profile in us .
 up to 62 television stations owned or managed by sinclair_broadcasting group -- many in swing states -- will show documentary highly critical of sen john_kerry 's antiwar activities 30 years ago within next two weeks . sinclair officials say film would pre-empt regular night programming . democratic senators including edward m kennedy and dianne_feinstein are writing letter calling for federal_communications_commission to investigate matter , arguing that documentary is not news but prolonged political advertisement from pres bush and , as such , violates fairness rules .
 new_york state 's 671 suburban and rural school districts plan to raise $ 691 million through tax increases that average 4.4 percent statewide , and legislature has budgeted record $ 900 million in new aid for those districts . school officials say they are doing what they can to reduce taxes , but that they face yearly increases of 5 to 6 percent in teacher salaries , and double-digit spikes in health insurance and energy costs . tax opponents say increases constitute more evidence that state money will not end drumbeat of higher property taxes .
 israeli forces kill seven palestinians in series of military strikes in west_bank and gaza_strip . soldiers block more than 1,000 palestinian men and boys from returning home for second_day as army scours refugee camp for wanted men . army claims in last_24_hours it has stopped three would-be suicide bombers .
 galveston_county , along with two neighboring texas counties , opted out of social security in 1981 , instead offering public employees private retirement accounts that offer preview of pres bush 's privatization proposals . hundreds of county workers have since retired and more than 4,000 current workers make deposits . some prominent retirees , like former judge_ray_holbrook , say they are richer as result , but those on lower end of scale have seen small nest eggs eroded by inflation or gone altogether if they chose lump-sum payment . photos . workers put 6.1 percent of pay into accounts , about same as social security , and county adds 7.7 percent . first financial benefits of houston invests most of money in safe but low-yielding securities and annuities .
 the next space race , first of three articles on expanding space race in developing world , details china 's space program . china has succeeded in becoming only third nation to put astronaut into orbit , definitively signaling that it intends to break into front ranks of space explorers . chinese plan to send more astronauts into space next year , to launch moon probe within three years , and to land unmanned vehicle on moon by 2010 , five years before deadline pres bush set for next americans to arrive there . us and china now stand at critical juncture , between cooperation or competition , in what could be costly and dangerous new space race that extends even beyond china . when pres bush outlined his ambitious space vision last week , he extended invitation for international cooperation to china .
 new yorker magazine film critic david_denby puts west 72nd street co-op on market for $ 1.1 million . ubs executive brendan_dillon and wife eva put two apartments at 655 park avenue on market for combined price of $ 15 million . are also listing separate fourth-floor unit for $ 4.85 million . halstead property co releases report showing rise in average sales price of manhattan apartment in august and september , countering theories that housing market is in decline .
 fred_segal , outfitter of hollywood celebrities and well-to-do people , maintains two independently owned boutiques in los_angeles . ron_herman_fred_segal on melrose avenue is glitzier of two and appears to attract more high-profile clients . is hailed for people watching and criticized for its attitude . fred_segal in santa_monica is larger of two stores and is little less pricey . merchandise described .
 three car bombs explode nearly simultaneously half mile apart in mainly shiite suburb of baghdad , kililng at least 18 people and wounding 46 others . earlier in day , sunni arab journalist with links to hardline school of sunni islam is killed with his son in drive-by shooting nearby . elsewhere in iraq , at least eight other deaths occur in war , including those of two marines said to be shot by insurgents in combat operations in ramadi .
 opening of movie version of da_vinci code has spawned mini-industry of product tie-ins and merchandise . products have generated estimated $ 1 billion in sales before film 's opening weekend . book 's popularity guarantees merchandise will continue to sell well even if movie is not blockbuster as expected . book has produced $ 400 million in worldwide revenues with 60.5 million copies in print in 44 languages .
 pres bush is gaining in several swing states that he lost in 2000 . experts caution that race is highly fluid , but say that at least for now , bush is surging ahead in several crucial states , making headway in iowa and wisconsin , both of which he lost last time . he is also building leads in ohio and west_virginia , states he won in 2000 . sen john_kerry appears to have ceded missouri to bush . political maps .
 reading file column quotes : allen w dulles 's 1945 briefing on great difficulty of rebuilding germany , as reprinted by foreign affairs magazine in light of iraq occupation . leander kahney comment in wired news suggesting that apple 's itunes software is creating new form of bigotry on campus . colin_mcginn 's article in think magazine on matrix movies .
 one year after devastating fire that disrupted subway service on a and c lines , equipment is still not replaced or repaired . glen_m_wilson , new_york_city transit official who oversees signal equipment , describes damage at transportation_research_board 's annual conference in washington . holds that age of system is major factor in its repair . estimates of money needed to repair cables and restore service have risen from $ 10 million to $ 150 million .
 press bush on visit to europe hears from european leaders who want prison at guantanamo_bay , cuba , closed , and visits tancsics prison in budapest . historically important prison is known as marine_house and has served as barracks for marines_guarding_united_states_embassy since hungary gave us building after world war ii . bush 's cousin , amb george_herbert_walker_iii , is negotiating return of prison to hungary .
 profile of and interview with lillian_vernon , 77 , who sold her catalog company last year for $ 60 million , has relinquished control of daily operations but still goes to office four days a week . strauss_zelnick , whose company , zelnickmedia , acquired lillian_vernon_corp , comments on plan to relocate business to downtown white plains from rye , ny , and role vernon will play .
 france and germany close ranks against united_states , teaming with belgium to block attempts by nato to begin military planning for defense of turkey in event of war with iraq and teaming with russia to issue joint declaration calling for intensified weapons inspections as alternative to war . in response to blocking of nato , turkey takes highly unusual step of invoking article iv of nato_treaty , which requires entire alliance to consult if any member feels its security is threatened . further nato meeting is called for feb 11 . move by three nato members most reluctant to use military force against iraq marks one of most serious cleavages in history of alliance and is sharply criticized by some members as blow to strength and credibility of organization at core of trans-atlantic cooperation . at united_nations , iraq delivers letter to chief un weapons inspectors agreeing to allow flights over country by photographic surveillance aircraft . photos . diagram .
 dr jan t vilcek , scientist whose pioneering medical research led to development of blockbuster drug remicade , will give $ 105 million to new_york_university_school_of_medicine , his professional home for four decades . vilcek , 72 , hid from nazis as child and later escaped communist regime in czechoslovakia . his gift is one of largest ever given to any school or health care institution in new_york_city , and among biggest in nation .
 white_house letter explores pres bush 's affinity for alexis_de_tocqueville , whose book democracy in america has provided bush with basis for expanding religion-based initiative , $ 2 billion program that makes it easier for religious groups to get government money for social programs . tocqueville 's notion of limited government that works as long as there are healthy institutions of civil society is consistent with bush 's ideology .
 conrad black moves to block hollinger_international , in which he holds a controlling interest , from selling any of its newspaper properties . changes hollinger international bylaws to require that asset sales or mergers in excess of $ 1 million receive unanimous board approval . black , who is attempting to sell his controlling interest in hollinger international for $ 178 million to company owned by barclay_brothers_of_britain , is embroiled in dispute with hollinger over its charges that he and associates received more than $ 200 million from hollinger in unauthorized payments .
 bob_herbert op-ed column on case of sgt carlos_lazo , medic and member of washington state_national_guard , who returned from iraq two weeks ago after participating in ferocious battle in falluja and who is unable to visit his two teenage sons living in havana because of tough new restrictions on travel to cuba .
 article on new_york_club scene of late 1980 's and early 1990 's , which relied heavily on drugs and drag queens , in light of new feature film party monster . movie is based on james_st_james ' 1999 memoir , disco bloodbath . st james and others attending premiere party comment on their lives and film starring seth_green and macaulay_culkin .
 aug 6 , 2001 , intelligence briefing to pres bush represented what intelligence officials call boiled-down version of all cia had learned , guessed or been told since 1997 about osama bin laden 's intentions for american strike . declassifed version is blacked out in three places to hide names of foreign governments that provided crucial reports . nowhere in document does cia assess veracity of sources .
 david_carr column on washington post chief executive donald_e_graham , who could boast about company 's performance in beleaguered newspaper industry but does not . says washington post is now education business with newspaper adjunct . says growth of kaplan , test preparation company -- division that lost $ 13 million in 2001 and had operating income of $ 158 million in 2005 -- and investments in cable and broadcast have kept company 's stock from sharing some of pain of other media companies .
 italian housewares manufacturer alberto_alessi still has several limited-edition tea and coffee sets he commissioned from architects 20 years ago , and his company will soon be offering architect-designed drinkware , priced from $ 5,000 to $ 50,000 . new collection will debut at milan furniture fair and will also be shown in new_york later in spring . 1983 sets for tea and coffee embodied stylized neoclassical style in vogue then .
 port city of yokusuka , japan , commemorates 150th anniversary of arrival of commodore matthew_c_perry , who forced japan to open up to international trade and relations . this led to collapse of regime that had ruled feudal japan in isolation and peace for more than two centuries , and then to modern japan 's scramble to catch up with west and grab asian empire . historians say perry has sunk into obscurity in united_states , but he is most widely known foreign historic figure in japan .
 four belgian f-16 ` s arrive at former soviet base in lithuania to police skies over lithuania , latvia and estonia , former soviet republics that have joined nato . territory being patrolled abuts 500 miles of russia 's western_frontier , and to russians meaning is clear : alliance still views it as potential enemy rather than partner .
 rioting in benton_harbor , mich , is linked not just to police chase on june 16 that ended with death of motorcyclist , but also to another fatal police chase several years ago and other complaints about criminal justice system . some 250 police officers from surrounding communities now patrol city , nearly all of whose 11,000 inhabitants are african-american and poor . town 's city_commission , mayor , city manager and police chief are all black , but there has been racial strife for decades between residents of benton_harbor and authorities in rural benton township , and neighboring_95-percent-white_beach_community_of_st_joseph photo .
 dim outlook for auto parts makers and their stocks discussed in light of plans by ford_motor and general_motors to cut output . delphi , by far industry leader , is trying to expand its customer base beyond gm , its former owner and still source of 60 percent of its sales . delphi , lear_corp and others are also moving to build more elaborate and more expensive components rather than parts . income graphs of industry leaders .
 article in occasional series on efforts to rebuild liberty_bank and trust , largest black-owned bank in new_orleans , after hurricane katrina . chief executive alden j mcdonald jr is relying on his many connections to powerful people to revive bank . some notables mcdonald has contacted for help include former pres bill_clinton , gov kathleen_blanco , rev jesse_jackson , john_breaux , andrew_young and robert_livingston .
 brookhaven_national_laboratory , which became model for reform four years ago when it began aggressive cleanup campaign , now wants to extend to 70 years amount of time it will take to filter radioactive strontium 90 from groundwater and 65 years to extract volatile organic compounds from aquifer . scientists says new plan is less expensive and will put less strain on surrounding community .
 bush administration , seeking to bolster newly emerging team of palestinian leaders , presses arab and european nations to cut back diplomatic contacts with yasir_arafat and divert aid to palestinians away from his control . donor nations supply $ 1 billion a year , with about quarter coming from european_union and more than third from arab league .
 bruce_weber article on musical avenue q , which is first new musical of broadway season to make back its capitalization in small , steady bites -- averaging about $ 100,000 in net revenue per week . says most astute move of producers was not to transfer show from vineyard theater to commercial theater off broadway , where most people expected it to go , but to broadway house . producers kevin_mccollum , jeffrey_seller and robyn_goodman comment .
 about 800 friends of george_plimpton turn up for party at cipriani 42nd street , which was planned before his death on sept 26 to celebrate 50th anniversary of paris review , which he founded with peter_mathiessen and harold_l_humes and which he edited until end of his life . organizers decided to go on without him but in his honor .
 gen tommy_r_franks , overall commander of invading allied troops , makes his first flight into iraq since war began . meets with commanders of british first armored division outside basra , american first marine_expeditionary_force in numaniya and 101st airborne division in najaf . says what he learned from field commanders about how remaining iraqi forces are fighting and organizing their resistance will bring about some adjustments in his battle plan . leaves battle zone more persuaded than ever that his much-criticized battle plan is on track and that government in baghdad is near collapse .
 david_s_addington , succeeding lewis_libby as vice pres cheney 's chief of staff , has spent much of career working for cheney and is known as master of bureaucratic combat who has been at center_of_fierce_administration battles , advocating unyielding agenda for expansive presidential power . libby 's second title as national security adviser to cheney goes to john_p_hannah , who has worked for cheney since 2001 but began as protege of dennis_b_ross , former mideast negotiator .
 mcallen , tex , is benefiting from influx of money from monterrey , mex , which is nine miles away and home to many top companies and one of mexico 's highest per capita concentration of millionaires . mcallen 's fast-evolving nature is function of its ample labor supply , which is drawing variety of service industries to city . mcallen draws greater share of mexican spending than any other city in us .
 verlyn_klinkenborg chronicle column reviews some new books on the environment : high tide : the truth about our climate crisis by mark_lynas . red sky at morning : america and the crisis of the global environment by james_gustave_speth . limits to growth by donella_meadows , jorgen_randers and dennis_meadows . boiling point by ross_gelbspan . and one with nineveh : politics , consumption , and the human future by paul_r_ehrlich and anne_h_ehrlich .
 honda_motor will be sole sponsor of what sony pictures television is calling minisode network , which is scheduled to begin next week . visitors to myspace web site will be able to watch episodes of 15 vintage sony series , edited from their original lengths of 30 or 60 minutes each to internet-friendly 4 to 6 minutes . honda and its agency rpa have agreed to run only eight seconds of commercials with each episode .
 naoto kan , leader of japan 's main opposition party , is forced to resign after admitting that he failed to pay into national pension plan for 10 months in 1996 . days earlier , yasuo_fukuda , chief cabinet secretary for governing party , stepped down over same issue . kan 's resignation leaves his party in disarray just two months before elections for upper_house_of_parliament .
 three education-related books are reviewed . enemies of promise : publishing , perishing and the eclipse of scholarship by lindsay waters is reviewed by russell_jacobs . the red pencil : convictions from experience in education by theodore_r_sizer and keeping school : letters to families from principals of two small schools by deborah_meier , theodore_r_sizer and nancy_faust_sizer is reviewed by anemona_hartocollis .
 pres bush 's inauguration planners are striving for solemn mood in light of iraq war . theme is ` celebrating freedom and honoring service ' . committee seeks to raise $ 30 million to $ 40 million , but critics say spending so much on parties seems ill-timed because of iraq war and tsunami in asia . presidents generally have let party go on even during wartime , while also acknowledging soldiers ' hardships .
 bank one chairman-chief executive james_l_dimon is in line to become chief executive of j p morgan with merger of two banks . merger represents sweetest form of redemption , if not revenge , for dimon , onetime protege of citigroup chairman sanford i weill . dimon was forced out of citigroup in ugly power struggle in 1998 , one month after masterminding merger between weill_'s_travelers_group and citicorp .
 fourth-quarter profit at citigroup nearly doubled on strength of its credit card business and low litigation costs . net income was $ 4.76 billion , up 96 percent from $ 2.43 billion year earlier . revenue rose 13 percent , to $ 20.2 billion . bank announces 14 percent dividend increase , to 40 cents per share . chief executive charles o prince comments .
 corcoran gallery of art president and director david_levy resigns over decision by trustees to suspend plans for $ 170 million addition designed by frank_gehry . board elects new chairman , jeanette_ruesch , to succeed john_hazel_jr , who will now serve as vice chairman . hazel says institution would have needed minimum of $ 100 million to proceed with addition .
 analysis of possible changes in role that un security council may play in future in light of american plans to engage in war against iraq . german foreign min joschka_fischer says security council may be facing historic turning point . other members , without mentioning it publicly , say council 's inability to play primary authorizing role in iraq may thwart efforts to prevent korean_peninsula and iran from becoming nuclear powers .
 government reports that us economy created 337,000 new jobs in oct , snapping prolonged jobs slump and igniting renewed hopes that after years of caution , businesses may finally be starting to hire workers more aggressively . it was biggest monthly increase in employment since march . unemployment inches up 0.1 percent , to 5.5 percent . that is seen as positive development -- largely result of discouraged workers returning to labor force because of improved prospects .
 britain has one of highest levels of binge drinking in europe . prime min tony_blair worries that binge drinking , defined as five or more drinks in one sitting , will become new british disease . some fear it already has . cite as contributing factors cheaper and more readily available alcohol , changing drinking patterns , steep increase in drinking among young women and decline in old standards of civility . problem is already costing society $ 35 billion a year , according to government estimates .
 internet statement posted in name of abu_musab_al-zarqawi ` s group says terrorist leader in iraq has been injured for ' sake of god , ' term used by militants to refer to wounds at us hands . posting comes on day when attacks kills nine us soldiers across iraq , bringing three-day total of american dead to 14 . reports noted that zarqawi_sought_hospital treatment at least twice in western_desert , during us campaign that has netted several associates .
 raymond and vanessa_jackson of collingswood , nj , are indicted on 8 counts of aggravated asault and 20 counts of endangerment for allegedly starving their four adopted sons , causing them to suffer severe growth retardation and malnutrition . state reports that children are healthier since leaving jackson home in october, 2003 , with oldest son , bruce , doubling his weight .
 theresa_shaw , education department official responsible for student loan program , resigns , two days before sec margaret_spellings testifies before congress , where she is expected to face tough questions about oversight of lenders . shaw was appointed in 2002 after years at giant_lender_sallie_mae . second official , matteo_fontana , who also had worked at sallie_mae , is on leave amid questions about stock in loan company . sen edward_kennedy seeks files on 27 employees .
 prince charles says he will marry camilla_parker_bowles in civil ceremony at windsor castle on apr 8 . they have been friends and lovers for most of last 30 years . they have survived marriages and divorces from other people , icy disapproval of relatives , resentment of public , and publication of intimate details of their risque pillow talk . bride will not become princess of wales -- position so notably filled by charles ' first wife diana . instead , she will be known as her royal highness the duchess of cornwall . she will become princess consort , not queen , if charles succeeds his mother on thrown .
 profile of and interview with canadian mystery writer howard_engel , whose latest private-eye novel , memory book , will be published next year in us . novel 's main character , private detective benny_cooperman , falls victim to rare brain disorder , alexia_sine_agraphia , and is unable to remember things . engel , 73 , in real life , suffered stroke four years ago and also has alexia_sine_agraphia .
 dan_barry_column on late sister kathy_toner , roman catholic nun who founded samaritan_house , small nonsectarian shelter in brooklyn for homeless women and children . notes that sister kathy lived in shelter for nearly 15 years , until failing health forced her to move to a convent in scranton , pa . says it is typical for many of nuns who have led unheralded lives of good works in new_york to spend quiet retirement in home far from city .
 labor dept estimates that economy added 308,000 jobs in march , pulling out of pattern of tepid employment growth to clock largest number of new jobs in single month since april 2000 . unemployment , which is measured through separate household survey rather than by tracking company payrolls , inched up to 5.7 percent from 5.6 percent in feb . labor dept also revises its estimate of jobs created in jan and feb to 205,000 , almost double its previous estimate of 118,000 .
 article on dispute over development of former mill neck marina in locust_valley , ny . developer harvey_weisman wants to build four $ 800,000 to $ 1 million homes on property and is willing to pay for part of cleanup . new_york_state_environmental_conservation_department , in flip-flop , has listed marina as state superfund site . listing means entire property must be cleaned up , but only after extensive tests that would be paid for by owners .
 fordham_university plans to more than double size of its lincoln_center campus in ambitious expansion that will be financed partly by sale of at least two corner parcels on amsterdam avenue for luxury housing development . plan calls for high-rise quadrangle for 10,600 students on columbus_avenue end of superblock between 60th and 62nd streets , with seven new buildings around 1.5-acre courtyard . councilwoman gale a brewer expresses hope that corner residential towers , one of which might reach 60 stories , can be scaled back and that lower-cost housing can be included in plan .
 long island_power_authority names fpl energy of juno_beach , fla , to build 40 wind turbines in atlantic_ocean in what would become country 's first offshore wind park . each turbine is expected to produce up to 3.6 megawatts of energy , for combined total of more than 140 megawatts , enough to power 140,000 long_island homes .
 oracle_corp raises its bid to acquire peoplesoft to $ 9.4 billion , or $ 26 a share , which is 33 percent more than offer it made last june and $ 3.30 higher than shares of peoplesoft closed on feb 4 . surprise increase in offer price signals new stage in hostile takeover fight for peoplesoft that had appeared stalled in recent months .
 latest regional survey of economic conditions by federal_reserve offers further evidence that economy is expanding at slower pace , but not at predicted levels of sharper slowdown . producer price index increased 0.9 percent in december 2006_0.9 percent and 1.1 percent for entire year . tight labor market is moderately pushing up wages , but there is little evidence that businesses are increasing prices as result . housing market continues to soften .
 few women at bedford_hills correctional facility in bedford_hills , ny , benefit from easing of rockefeller-era drug laws . only about 10 of 850 drug-related prisoners are released as result of changes . prisoner advocates say that by focusing on most sympathetic prisoners , they may have inadvertently limited assistance for vast majority of women jailed on drug charges . women account for 5 percent of prison population , but about 7 percent of drug offenders .
 mayor michael_bloomberg , openly challenging gov george e pataki and state legislature to increase education aid to new_york_city , proposes $ 13.1 billion in school construction and repairs over five years -- most ambitious education capital plan in city history -- and demands that albany foot more than half the bill . bloomberg plan calls for $ 4 billion to build or lease 76 new school buildings and $ 4.6 billion in improvements like wireless computer neworking in all schools , upgrading science labs and new safety equipment , including surveillance cameras .
 article on rodney_king 12 years after videotape of his beating by police sparked 1992 los angeles riots that left 55 dead and over $ 1 billion in property damage . king settled with city and police department for $ 3.8 million , which has mostly gone to lawyers , lawsuits against lawyers , counter-lawsuits , wrecked cars , failed rap label and parties . king says country has long way to go on racial issues .
 rep richard a gephardt speaks to supporters in des_moines after finishing fourth in iowa caucuses . concedes his defeat in iowa and cancels plans to attend rallies in new_hampshire and south_carolina , instead scheduling flight to his home state of missouri . aides say he will drop out of race , and gephardt himself implies as much . says he will support whichever candidate is nominated . his campaign recalled .
 new_york_state_appeals_court rules that new_york_city schools are being shortchanged at least $ 4.7 billion annually in state aid . holds that only governor and legislature , not courts , can determine exact amount of education aid . orders legislature to consider directing between $ 4.7 billion and $ 5.63 billion to city schools . leading legislators say current budget proposals will comply with court 's decision . court also orders state to provide city about $ 9.2 billion over next five years for school construction projects .
 new_york_state_correction_commission condemns prison health services for poorly overseeing health care at rikers_island prison -lrb- nyc -rrb- , where inmate david_pennington committed suicide in 2004 . he was one of 23 inmates to kill themselves in new_york_city or new_york state jails over past four years .
 exhibition satirical london at museum of london celebrates satirical prints and cartoons spanning three centuries . satire as art form has thrived in england from william_hogarth 's satirical cartoon gin lane , which was drawn around 1750 , to updated rendering of same scene titled cocaine lane drawn by martin_rowson in 2001 .
 wegman 's food stores in rochester presses burglary , trespassing and other charges against adam_c_durand , film maker . durand and two friends , melanie_ippolito and megan_cosgrove , paid unauthorized visit to wegman 's poultry farm and filmed documentary , wegman 's cruelty , that they claim demonstrates cruel and unhealthy treatment of hens caged there in close quarters . some experts question whether all scenes in movie were actually filmed at wegman farm .
 two new_york times reporters do unscientific re-enactment of dr stanley_milgram 's experiment of 30 years ago in which he sent graduate students into crowded new_york_city subway cars to ask riders to give up their seats . 68 percent of riders asked by milgram 's students gave up their seats . times reporters got seats in 13 out of 15 tries . experiment explores invisible social dictates in urban life that maintain order and often go unnoticed until violated . produced tremendous anxiety in researchers conducting test then and now .
 john_tierney political points column notes political futures markets intrade.com and iowa electronic markets favor howard dean to win january 19 iowa caucuses . notes john_kerry is regarded as nicest customer and best tipper by waiters , bartenders and hotel workers in des_moines . describes dean volunteers ' get-out-the-vote operation called perfect storm . notes rep dennis_j_kucinich assures des moines audience that local insurance workers put out of work by his proposed national_health_care_system would all find jobs administering new plan .
 pew internet and american life project finds percentage of internet users swapping music files online fell from 29 percent in mar-may survey to 14 percent in nov-dec survey after recording_industry_association_of_america started suing file sharers . percentage of internet users downloading files on any given day fell from 4 percent to 1 percent . project director lee_rainie says past surveys showed many people did not fully understand that downloads infringed on copyrights . says industry 's tactics seem to have changed behavior , if not attitude .
 united states attorney christopher_j_christie emerges as factor in new jersey senatorial race after issuing subpoena to north_hudson_community action corporation , which paid more than $ 300,000 in rent to democratic candidate sen robert_menendez while receiving millions in federal grants with menendez 's help . democrats have assailed christie for acting in manner that places politics over prosecutorial conduct .
 li du -lrb- china -rrb- wins women 's 10-meter air rifle . lioubov galkina -lrb- russia -rrb- wins silver and katerina_kurkova -lrb- czech republic -rrb- wins bronze . yifu wang -lrb- china -rrb- wins men 's 10-meter air pistol . mikhail nestruev -lrb- russia -rrb- wins silver and vladimir_isakov -lrb- russia -rrb- wins bronze .
 israeli military court orders release of 18 palestinian lawmakers from hamas , including parliament speaker aziz_dweik . photo . palestinian pres mahmoud abbas and hamas prime min ismail_haniya announce tentative agreement on national_unity_government . court orders covers hamas legislators held in southern_west_bank . 20 more are being held in northern portion .
 fifteen percent of liquor stores in new_york_city take advantage of new state law that allows them to open on sunday if they close one other day during week , and they are finding swap profitable . lobbyists for liquor industry say that law also is lucrative for state coffers . some consumers say they are confused as to which stores are open . law reportedly hurts bootleggers , but no immediate drop in sales is reported in new jersey , where sunday liquor sales have long been allowe .
 microsoft , after two years of what european_commission 's antitrust staff viewed as foot-dragging , is portraying itself as productive and cooperative in coming up with documentation for its server software . eu advisory committee is scheduled to discuss draft decision to impose 420 million euro -lrb- $ 527 million -rrb- fine before end_of july .
 neil_g_volz , former top aide to rep bob_ney , ohio republican , pleads guilty to conspiring with lobbyist jack_abramoff to corrupt public officials and says gifts were ` corruptly offered to and accepted by ' ney . volz , in court papers , says gifts included 2002 trip to scotland by private jet that included rounds of golf at fabled course at st_andrews .
 french town of oradour-sur-glane marks 60th anniversary of day german troops , angry at being delayed in reaching normandy front by french resistance , rounded up residents and gunned them down before setting fire to village . 642 people died in massacre that became symbol of german brutality and of betrayal by collaborators , particularly 14 alsatian soldiers who had been french citizens before war . only six people survived . two still living recall terrible day .
 scholars at northeastern_illinois_university_meeting_reassess_central_intelligence_agency coups in iran and guatemala in early 1950s . find coups led those nations away from democracy and toward repression and tragedy . iran was freer at time of 1953 coup that ousted mohammed mossadegh and replaced him with shah_mohammed_reza_pahlevi than at any other time before or since . guatemala , within few years after 1954 coup that replaced jacobo_arbenz with col carlos_castillo_armas , fell into maelstrom of guerrilla war and state terror . both coups were authorized by pres dwight d eisenhower .
 local conditional release commission orders former state sen guy j velella and four others to be returned to jail . decision comes after board determined that five inmates it released in 2004 had been let out illegally . velella 's lawyer , charles_a_stillman , says he will seek temporary restraining order . says velella has prostate cancer . others ordered to surrender are manuel_gonzales and hector_del_toro , who were sentenced with velella , and minor criminals kamala_stephens and carlos_caba .
 widening scandal tying paramilitary death squads and drug traffickers to close supporters of colombian pres alvaro_uribe is clouding brief visit to colombia by pres bush . congressional democrats have increased their scrutiny of proposed trade agreement and bush 's request for new $ 3.9 billion aid package for colombia . colombian officials urge us lawmakers not to be distracted from uribe 's accomplishments in ending chaos since taking office in 2002 .
 donald_e_ross , president of lynn_univ in boca_raton , fla , has annual pay package worth $ 5,042,315 , putting him at top among nation 's private university presidents in latest annual survey of executive compensation by the chronicle of higher education . four others identified as earning $ 1 million in single year are audrey k doberstein -lrb- wilmington coll -rrb- , e gordon gee -lrb- vanderbilt -rrb- , john_r_silber -lrb- boston univ -rrb- and john_n_mccardell jr -lrb- middlebury_coll -rrb- .
 nasa study of how navy operates nuclear submarines has found sharp differences between navy and space agency , with some lessons for safety and reliability that nasa could adopt and some that may be out of its reach . study was undertaken last year , and was given new impetus with columbia accident on feb 1 . independent board appointed to investigate accident is heavy with navy members and navy consultants . nasa management study suggests that navy has ` robust independent audit capability ' and that nasa needs one .
 sen john_kerry opens two-week critique of bush administration foreign policy by accusing pres bush of abandoning american alliance-building of post-world war ii era and rushing to war in iraq , speech in seattle . says bush failed to exhaust diplomacy and failed to assemble international team . pledges to restore american leadership that bush has undermined . says bush is too stubborn to rescue flawed iraq strategy . speech comes at risky time for kerry . continued turmoil in iraq and prisoner abuse scandal have led to growing doubts about bush 's policies , but kerry is under pressure from his own party to present more forceful alternative . many antiwar democrats are calling for definite date for pulling out of iraq . it is unclear if kerry 's balancing act will satisfy them .
 peter_applebome our towns column on congressional election in new_york 's 19th district where john_hall , former musician with rock band_orleans , challenges incumbent sue kelly . television comedian stephen_colbert features race on his show , colbert report . hall seems to benefit more from exposure on show than kelly , who declined to participate .
 origins of baseball remain shrouded in mystery , with no agreement on when or where game was first played . it was once officially asserted that game was invented in cooperstown , ny , in 1839 , and later that it was in hoboken , nj , in 1846 . now , library clerk has unearthed document dating to 1791 that banned playing of baseball near church in pittsfield , mass . historians also trace versions of game back to 13th century and to variety of locations around world .
 family and friends recall chief justice wlliam h rehnquist not as cerebral public conservative who helped transform_supreme_court , but as private man who loved history , singing and cards . eulogies are delivered by pres bush , justice sandra day o'connor and several of rehnquist 's children and grandchildren . service , held at st_matthew 's cathedral in washington , dc , offers extraordinary glimpse into rehnquist 's personal side , much of which was unseen by public in his 33 years on court .
 article on continuing popularity of new jersey prisons as locations for filming movies . new miramax documentary , how do you spell murder . , was filmed at east_jersey_state_prison in rahway . new student film fatal mistakes , featuring unprecedented interview with death row inmate , robert_marshall , was filmed at new_jersey_state_prison in trenton . third new documentary , going home , was shot at edna_mahan correctional facility for women in clinton .
 kuwait is close to opening its lucrative oil production business again to outsiders thirty years after foreign oil companies were expelled from country . move , expected to be approved by parliament in january , means that one of top producers in persian_gulf finally will lift some of restrictions imposed on foreign operators . recent high oil prices have encouraged governments to further tighten rules governing foreign participation and prompted new wave of ` resource nationalism ' . venezuela , russia and bolivia each have pushed for greater control , while britain plans to increase taxes on its production from north_sea .
 analysts say earnings at south african gold miners for last_quarter_of 2003 will rival poor results of third_quarter . both quarters were battered by two-year advance in rand . rand 's overall strength virtually canceled benefits of high gold prices to miners in last_quarter , and rand remains volatile . 28 percent appreciation in rand from 2002 to 2003 reduced by 15 percent price in rand that south african producers received for their gold .
 three top commanders of colombia 's right-wing death squads emerge from their government-granted haven in north to speak in bogota before country 's congress , professing firm commitment to fragile peace talks aimed at disarming their 15,000-member paramiltary force . three , salvatore_mancuso , ramon_isaza and ivan_roberto_duque , commanders of united_self-defense_forces_of_columbia , were invited to speak by members of congress who claim paramilitary group is misunderstood . three are eager to alter their reputations as mass killers and criminals . their appearance infuriates those who want justice for thousands of colombians killed by paramiltaries in their long war to erode support for marxist rebels .
 article on muted stance that officials at new_jersey_symphony_orchestra are taking following indictment of herbert_axelrod , from whom it purchased collection of 30 antique string instruments for $ 18 million last year , on tax evasion charges . axelrod , 76 , milllionaire publisher and violin collector , has fled to havana from his home in deal , nj . photos .
 parolee rudy_fleming , 19 , is charged with murdering nicole_dufresne on lower east side of manhattan on jan_27 , when she talked back to them during robbery . two of his friends , david_simmon and unidentified youth , are charged in earlier nearby robbery . simmon 's cousins servano and servisio were present at both crimes but have not been charged . dufresne , an actress , was leaving max fish bar when youths tried to rob_her , her fiance and friends .
 analysis of race for democratic presidential nomination in light of sen john_kerry 's win in new_hampshire . howard dean needs to win somewhere , and may leapfrog to states like michigan and wisconsin that vote later in feb , then regroup for big march 2 contests . sen john_edwards was gaining among new hampshire voters , but apparently ran out of time . he heads to race next week in his native south_carolina . gen wesley_k_clark and sen joseph_i_lieberman are pressing on despite uncertainty about where they might catch fire .
 legislators in maryland and pennsylvania are racing to legalize gambling , convinced that thousands of their residents are gambling millions of dollars in neighboring new jersey , west_virginia , delaware and new_york . proposals are gaining momentum because both states face fiscal problems , but added incentive is fear that the other state will legalize gambling first . critics say proponents exaggerate flow of money across borders . say revenues are overstated and will be offset by associated costs . say greatest harm will be to low-income families .
 trash is removed from 20 apartment buildings on roosevelt_island by suction system that transports 10 tons of trash daily through 20-inch pipe at 60 miles an hour . system , built by envac_co , transports trash to building over one-half mile away where it is compacted and carted away . city and state argue over funding that helps pay salaries of systems workers .
 former police officer brian_smith is sentenced to nine years in federal prison for death in custody of earl_faison , who was picked up in frenzied , chaotic search for killer of police officer joyce_carnegie in orange , new jersey , in 1999 . photo . four other officers were sentenced earlier for civil rights violations .
 martha_stewart is promoting martha_stewart living omnimedia 's new magazine everyday food , which will make its debut jan 6 , despite stewart 's problems over her sale of imclone_systems_inc 's shares . martha_stewart living omnimedia 's stock has benefited from recent absence of news about probes , still under way by justice_department_and_securities_and_exchange_commission , and from enthusiasm of new investors like rocker partners fund manager david_rocker .
 chinese officials confirm outbreaks of avian influenza in hunan and hubei provinces . say suspected cases have been reported in anhui and guangdong provinces and in shanghai . world health organization official henk_bekedam says china must improve its surveillance network of animal diseases or face increased risks that lethal h5n1 strain of bird flu could jump to humans there . china has no reported human cases as yet .
 us sends patriot antimissile systems and 600 troops to israel to strengthen its ability to defend against missile attacks in event of war against iraq . american officials ask nato for six types of assistance , much of support intended to help turkey , nato member , which has indicated that it will allow us to use air bases to strike iraq , but has not yet decided whether to allow deployment of significant number of us ground troops .
 opec sends energy markets on roller coaster , saying it is considering cutting output as some of group 's members indicate that they are becoming increasingly nervous about slumping prices . oil ministers may hold special meeting in coming weeks to endorse lower output levels . new_york contract rises as much as 2.6 percent , to $ 60.97 per barrel , before falling 7 cents , to $ 59.34 , and then settling at $ 60.03 per barrel , up about 1 percent for day .
 article on discord within minot clan , new_england family of seven children whose father , an alcoholic , died of cancer in 1999 and mother died in 1979 car accident . animosity is result of siblings writing novels , semi-autobiographical short stories and memoirs based on their lives . susan minot wrote semi-autobiographical monkeys in 1986 , eliza_minot published memoir , the tiny one , in 1999 , george , eldest son , has written murder mystery , the blue bowl and sam_minot has self-published his own memoir , strange poverty of the rich .
 the week column . new_york gov george_pataki has signed bill , sponsored by sen_michael_a_l_balboni , that would prevent north hills village , ny , from seizing deepdale_golf_club in groundwater protection district . balboni says bill is so narrow that it is unlikely to hamper any efforts to preserve open space . board of brookhaven_science_associates and us energy department approve appointment of interim director samuel_aronson as director of brookhaven_national_laboratory . nassau_county legislature raises legal age for buying cigarettes and other tobacco products to 19 .
 russian pres vladimir_putin 's icy reaction to assassination of acclaimed journalist anna_politkovskaya has fueled speculation that russian government was involved in her murder . international news of her death posed problem for kremlin , which had tried to make her nonperson in russia . putin first treated event with silence and when he finally spoke after being prodded , he insulted her . some say official reaction exposes dark side of russia that politkovskaya , tireless critic of kremlin and putin , fought against .
 santa_barbara_county , calif , district atty thomas_w_sneddon jr 's office says it will not file formal charges against michael_jackson until after thanksgiving . prosecutors and investigators will analyze materials seized from jackson 's ranch and other sites , seeking evidence to back statements from boy , 12 , that jackson sexually molested him last_winter .
 recovery is underway as residents , farmers and business owners assess damage two weeks after severe thunderstorm dumps more than 13 inches of rain on parts of new jersey 's burlington and camden counties . state engineers are checking out broken or weakened dams , county and state inspectors are surveying buildings for structural damage , roadways have been cleared and at least one temporary bridge has been built . full restoration of damages is expected to take years and to cost millions of dollars .
 gen pervez_musharraf , who has ruled pakistan for four years , has earned himself long list of enemies , any one of whom might wish him dead . two recent attempts on his life have been attributed to al_qaeda and its allies , but american officials note that in pakistan very little intelligence is dependable .
 california officials consider floating as much as $ 10 billion in bonds to stave off cash flow crisis from huge budget shortfall , despite wall street 's skepticism about state 's creditworthiness . officials also weigh raising state sales tax , already nation 's highest at 7.25 percent . new data will show budget gap has grown by up to $ 2 billion since january .
 russia 's yukos oil continues to thrive even though company owes government $ 3.4 billion in taxes and its founder , mikhail_b_khodorkovsky , is in jail for giving financial support to opposition political parties and by differing publicly with government over pipeline and export policies . yukos still pumps nearly 1.7 million barrels of oil a day , or 2 percent of world 's supply .
 recent announcement by microsoft that it will license unix patent from sco group is seen as bolstering legitimacy of sco 's claims that linux operating system software illegally infringes company 's key unix patents . sco filed $ 1 billion lawsuit in march 2003 against ibm , some of whose servers are shipped with linux system . suit claims that ibm has breached unix licensing deal it entered into , along with nearly 6000 other parties , more than 30 years ago with original unix developer at&_t .
 japanese historian yoshiaki_yoshimi , despite government 's efforts to hide past , succeeded in painting detailed picture of japan 's wartime sexual slavery : system of military-run brothels that emerged in 1932 after japan 's invasion of manchuria , then grew with full-scale war against china in 1937 and expanded into most of asia in 1940s .
 pair of early_morning_israeli_army raids in gaza kills 10 palestinians , including leading militant in islamic jihad movement , and nets seven arrests . palestinian security officials and hospital spokesmen say those killed include militant , two palestinian security force members , and four civilians aged 19 or younger . affiliation of three of dead is not clear . israel says it was forced to act because palestinian security forces fail to stop attacks and that militants hide in congested civilian areas , hoping to protect themselves from israeli forces .
 new_york state-certified driving examiner says altima_transportation executives never checked record of driver whose van slammed into tree in queens , killing five residents of adult group home and injuring four others . photo . guy thelemaque , who was also injured , had suspended license and was not certified to drive van . eliyahu rubin and elizabeth_davidowitz are listed as company owners . van was returning residents from day program at peninsula_hospital to brooklyn manor home for adults , which state_health_department has tried repeatedly to close down .
 pres bush names rep porter_j_goss , house_intelligence_committee chairman and former central_intelligence_agency case officer , to head cia . nomination seems headed for election-year battle in senate , with democrats holding bush erred by selecting clear partisan . goss recently denounced intelligence record of sen john_kerry , democratic presidential nominee . democrats who served on his committee say goss ignored their bill to overhaul intelligence community . goss has also ired cia with his june stand that it ignores core mission and is in ` dysfunctional denial ' of need for reform . chronology of goss 's career .
 profile of mishan_al-jaburi , leader of mosul , iraq , and main local power broker behind iraq 's first postwar election , vote among tribal leader to choose local government . jaburi , a leader from iraqi_national_congress , and american commander in area brought together 240 elders and tribal leaders . his critics accuse jaburi of having been business partner of saddam_hussein 's son , uday , something he vigorously denies .
 article profiles jerry_speyer and katherine_farley , new_york cultural power couple . farley is leading effort to transform avery_fisher_hall and is involved in reconstruction of west 65th street and alice_tully hall at lincoln_center . speyer is driving force behind expansion of museum of modern art and is leading campaign to raise $ 1 billion for new_york-presbyterian_hospital .
 united nations experts and senior liberian officials say former pres charles_taylor stole or diverted nearly $ 100 million of his country 's wealth , leaving it poorest nation on earth . he is said to have spent government money on houses , cars and sexual partners , and illegally diverted many millions in government revenues to buy weapons in defiance of international arms embargo . $ 100 million figure excludes graft from private enterprise . taylor fled to exile in nigeria on aug 11 carrying $ 3 million donated by government of taiwan to disarm and demobilize his private militias .
 world war ii memorial is dedicated in washington , dc . more than 100,000 people gather on mall , perhaps 60 percent of them veterans . pres bush , former sen bob_dole , actor tom_hanks and nbc_news anchor tom_brokaw are among speakers . sen john_kerry , former presidents bill_clinton and george h w bush are in attendance . 16 million served in armed forces during war , but most are already dead and 1,100 more die every day . memorial took 17 years of planning and cost $ 175 million .
 two rutgers_university students , john_p_morin and robert_morgan , are severely beaten with baseball bat during early morning brawl outside former fraternity_house on campus . three school wrestlers , christopher_gornick , justin_smigelsky and kenneth_rodriguez , are charged with assault and rioting . incident began when members of one fraternity were denied admission to other 's party .
 ads for rep anthony_d_weiner , new_york_city democrat seeking re-election and likely mayoral candidate in 2005 , attack mayor michael_r_bloomberg and avoid mention of his opponent in house race . say weiner is needed in congress because bloomberg has been supporter of pres bush and because bush policies have hurt city . bloomberg questions legality of using funds earmarked for congressional campaign to attack him .
 zalmay khalilzad , united_states ambassador to united_nations , has been welcomed effusively since his arrival six weeks ago , and one frequently mentioned reason is that he strikes people as so different from his combative predecessor john_r_bolton . as khalilzad confronts many of same issues that bolton did , he emphasizes his confidence in power of personal diplomacy . in first major test of his influence , he pushed for vote on resolution creating international tribunal to judge suspects in assassination of former lebanese prime minister rafik_hariri , despite warnings that it could inflame volatile politics of lebanon . measure passed 10 to 0 , with five countries abstaining .
 most expensive items in stores of russia are not denominated in rubles , russia 's official money , but in ` ue ' which is euphemism for wholly mythical money which corresponds exactly with exchange rate of united_states dollar . after decade in dollar-driven economy , many merchants who price their goods in conditional units are switching from dollar to euro , especially since euro surpassed dollar in world currency markets for first time last month .
 h carl_mccall resigns from board_of_new_york_stock_exchange in aftermath of pay furor involving former chairman richard a grasso . says his resignation is voluntary , but he has been criticized for signing , in his role as chairman of exchange_'s_compensation_committee , contract extension that would have awarded grasso $ 48 million on top of $ 139.5 million he had already collected . mccall , whose resignation is effective sept 29 , day before john_s_reed is to take over as chairman , calls for seven major reforms of big_board .
 profile of movie writer / director tod_williams focuses on his latest film the door in the floor , starring kim_basinger and jon_foster , adaptation of section of john_irving 's book widow for one year . williams ' next film is new version of hemingway 's to have and have not , with benicio del toro and harry_morgan . williams comments .
 many economists say pres bush may be running for re-election with stronger economy than is widely understood and that federal_reserve might raise interest rates more rapidly than many investors expect . number of people receiving state jobless benefits has fallen by almost 500,000 , or over 13 percent , since september . survey of executives suggests that companies in service sector are increasing their employment at fastest rate since 2000 . conference board survey shows amount of help-wanted advertising being placed across country has risen more than 10 percent since may .
 atomic heritage_foundation and los_alamos historical society organize two-day festival to celebrate 100th birthday of deceased j robert_oppenheimer , who is known as ` father of the atomic bomb ' . foundation president cynthia_c_kelly holds that preserving memory of manhattan project and events at los_alamos and other sites is akin to preserving united_states battlegrounds . is lobbying for discontinuous national park or atomic trail . robert and kitty_oppenheimer 's house in los_alamos is slated to become museum . books on los_alamos , where first nuclear bombs were produced and then used to end world war ii , are discussed .
 tenet healthcare is planning to sell 27 hospitals in financial turnaround move . sale will leave company with 69 hospitals in 13 states . among those to be sold are 19 in california , accounting for more than half of hospitals it owns in its home state . company says earnings for fourth_quarter_of 2003 will be ` significantly below ' what analysts have been predicting and will break even in 2004 .
 cia dir george j tenet told congress seven months ago that he would provide names of agency officials who waited 20 months before placing on federal watch list two suspected terrorists who wound up as hijackers . has not yet provided names of agency officials responsible for one of most glaring intelligence mistakes leading up to sept 11 attacks .
 crew tells investigators that ranking officer of state_island ferry that crashed on oct 15 apparently was not in pilot_house , violating new_york_city procedures . capt michael_j_gansas arrived at controls sometime before boat hit pier to find ferry 's pilot asst capt richard_j_smith had passed out or somehow lost control of boat . federal investigators determine ferry was traveling at 17 miles per hour and had not sped up or slowed down as it approached terminal on staten_island . 10 people died in crash . tests show gansas and five other crew had no alcohol in systems . capt smith 's test showed no alcohol nor illegal drugs but is being subpoenaed to test for prescription drugs .
 daimlerchrysler_ag says it will probably not achieve its earnings target for chrysler division . warning comes as company reports better-than-expected overall earnings in first_quarter . earned 588 million euros , or some $ 648.6 million at current exchange rates in quarter , down from 2.5 billion euros year earlier . revenue declined to 33.7 billion euros from 36.9 billion euros . chief financial officer manfred_gentz comments .
 brazil 's monopoly watchdog , known by its acronym cade , is expected to rule in coming weeks on nestle 's $ 230 million acquisition of garoto , maker of some of brazil 's favorite chocolates . sale would give new company 56 percent market share and near monopoly in some sectors . kraft foods and cadbury_schweppes , which lost out to nestle in bidding , petition cade to block deal .
 new report by international_energy_agency warns that oil prices will keep rising over next two decades unless oil-rich nations of middle_east and north_africa substantailly increase investments in their energy sectors . agency estimates that $ 3 trillion is needed for exploration , development and refining worldwide over next 25 years , but acknowledges that some countries might not be willing to invest in higher output .
 pierluigi collina , italy 's most successful soccer star , is one of most recognizable figures in world 's most popular game -- but not as player , as referee . international and italian soccer federations have 45-year age limit on referees , which means that collina will be benched after season 's final game in june . collina , financial adviser , earns over $ 200,000 a year as referee . his photo .
 sen john_w_warner , one of congress 's leading authorities on military , presents bipartisan proposal that soundly rejects pres bush 's plan to send more american troops to baghdad and urges administration to find new course in iraq . proposal to ` look at all the options ' comes on eve of state of union address . warner and fellow republican sens_susan_collins and norm_coleman , along with democratic sen ben_nelson , offer their proposal as alternative to iraq resoltuion backed by democratic leaders . details of competing iraq plans vary , but what is indisputable is that growing number of senators in both parties find president 's strategy flawed .
 bush administration and democrats in congress are at odds about resolution that would classify widespread killings of armenians by ottoman turkish government early in 20th_century as genocide . speaker nancy_pelosi backs resolution , while administration , under turkish pressure , is lobbying for democrats in charge of congress to drop measure . secretary of state condoleeza_rice and defense_sec robert m gates , in joint letters , speak sympathetically of armenians ' suffering , but also remind house and senate leaders that turkey cut defense contracts with france after french_national_assembly voted on similar measure last year . warn that similar reaction now could ` harm american troops in the field ' .
 profile of dynarand , san_francisco company that manages clinical trials for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and medical institutions that was started by brothers-in-law jonathan_dole and scott_hamilton . company , which started in garage with half-dozen computers and five phone lines , has moved to high-tech office in downtown san_francisco , has 38 employees and generated $ 9.5 million in revenue last year .
 rep ted_strickland becomes first democrat to win ohio governorship in 16 years . fellow democrat sherrod_brown unseats sen mike_dewine . photo . strickland benefits from republican corruption scandals and hobbled state economy . democratic victories give party solid footing in crucial presidential state . strickland , who defeats j kenneth_blackwell , is conservative methodist minister who opposes gun control . brown is one of most liberal members of state 's congressional delegation and won strong support from voters angry about iraq war .
 battling terrorism is election issue in shanksville , pa , where one of four airliners hijacked on sept 11 , 2001 crashed . residents in overwhelmingly republican hamlet are divided about effectiveness of pres bush 's strategy of aggressive intervention , particularly in iraq . opinions about war on terrorism are intense among town 's 245 residents . some of them comment .
 clyde_haberman nyc column on question of what to call proposed new stadium for new_york mets in queens . mayor michael_r_bloomberg hopes to reconfigure new stadium for 2012 olympics . his communications director says mets have option to sell or lease naming rights to new stadium . shea stadium was named for william_a_shea , lawyer and power broker credited with bringing stadium to queens by late mayor robert_f_wagner . shea 's descendants say new stadium should also bear his name .
 new_york_state_health_foundation is ready to begin operations after four year legal delay , during which assets state has given it have grown from value estimate at $ 50 million to more than $ 250 million . james_r_knickman is chosen president . foundation 's mandate is to expand health insurance coverage for those who can not afford it , improve access to care for people who have trouble finding it and educate people about health issues .
 many japanese consumers are starting to turn away from excess that luxury goods have come to represent . contradict common belief that japan 's appetite for such goods is bottomless . sales of lxury goods in japan have declined by more than one third since 1996 , to 1.2 trillion yen -lrb- $ 10.8 billion -rrb- .
 relatives of those who died in west_warwick , ri , nightclub fire give wrenching and heartbreaking testimony in providence courtroom , where judge_francis_j_darigan jr hold sentencing hearing for only person so far convicted in case , daniel_m_biechele , tour manager of band great white , who lighted pyrotechnics for performance by band in station nightclub . two other defendants have been charged , jeffrey and michael_derderian , brothers who owned club .
 comptroller alan g hevesi 's office will conduct in-depth audits of lawrence , manhasset , hempstead and brentwood_school district on long_island where reports of improper spending have surfaced . cites scandal in roslyn_school_district . will also audit administrators ' spending in nine other districts on island and administrators ' expenses in six more districts . william_floyd_district is not selected for audit because it is under investigation by suffolk_county .
 article on unusually rich crop of classic plays set to open on broadway this spring that are being directed by britons . david_leveaux is directing revival of tennessee_williams 's the glass menagerie , starring jessica_lange . anthony page is directing edward_albee 's who 's afraid of virginia woolf . starring kathleen_turner and bill_irwin . and edward_hall is making his broadway debut with roundabout theater revival of williams 's a streetcar named desire , starring natasha_richardson and john_c_reilly .
 dr volker_wenzel , university_of_innsbruck_cardiologist studying 1,186 people in austria , germany and switzerland , finds that injecting vasopressin in patients suffering asystole cardiac arrest increased survival rate from 1.5 percent to 4.7 percent . american heart assn suggests course of action for asystole , which is cardiac arrest , that does not respond to defrillator , is administration of adrenaline . american heart assn spokesman dr vinay_nadkarni reports that group is planning to consider study in developing new guidelines for resuscitation .
 hundreds of thousands of hurricane evacuees from new_orleans area are stranded in overcrowded motels , makeshift shelters and along highways across much of south , barred from returning to uninhabitable city and anxious for word about relatives . hotels hundreds of miles away are booked and red cross opens more than 230 shelters in schools , churches and civic centers in six southern_states . photos . some of refugees run out of money or credit or have to leave previously-booked rooms in places like memphis , six-hour drive from new_orleans .
 future of john_r_bolton 's controversial nomination as united_nations ambassador hinges on four wavering republicans , sens_lincoln_chafee , chuck_hagel , lisa_murkowski and george_v_voinovich . ` no ' vote by any one of them would doom nomination . voinovich , who insisted in apr on deeper probe into charges against bolton , makes bolton 's backers most nervous . he comments . at issue is way bolton has treated colleagues , particularly those with whom he disagreed on intelligence matters .
 formerly secret legal opinion written by us appeals court judge_david_s_tatel reveals that i lewis_libby jr , vice pres dick_cheney 's former chief of staff , told prosecutors that cheney informed him about cia agent valerie_wilson in mid-june 2003 , more than month before her identify was publicly disclosed . libby photo .
 pequonnock yacht_club is in midst of struggle with private developer and city of bridgeport , conn , over $ 1.5 billion project that would transform peninsula on bridgeport_harbor into upscale waterfront community . developer acquired land around yacht club through eminent domain , but club refuses to relinquish its acreage and marina . will face tough fight if standoff ends up in litigation , due to 2005 ruling by united_states_supreme_court affirming right of local governments to use eminent domain for urban revitalization .
 adam_hochschild op-ed article explains that long before dr martin_luther_king_jr and emancipation proclamation , racial freedom was honored on august 1 , date in 1838 when slavery was outlawed throughout british empire under law passed by parliament in 1833 . recounts how british antislavery movement burst into being in 1787 , after firebrand organizer , thomas_clarkson , convened abolition committee at quaker_bookstore in london .
 louisiana officials grow fearful that congress and bush administration are losing interest in plight of hurricane-ravaged state , as relief legislation languishes in congress . cite array of stalled bills and policy changes they seek to rebuild new_orleans and persuade thousands of residents to return . officials of both parties blame washington 's preoccupation with issues like iraq and deficit reduction . repr bobby_jindal , gov kathleen_blanco and walter_isaacson of louisiana recovery authority comment . photo . few in congress openly threaten to block money but many express fear of incompetence and graft in louisiana , and some openly wonder whether every flooded neighborhood should be rebuilt and protected with expensive floodwalls . sen ted_stevens has remarked that alaska communities are often relocated after storms . sen olympia_snowe , co-sponsor of bill to aid businesses , chastises sba for slow processing of 250,000 disaster loan applications . administration objections to some of aid proposals also noted .
 intercontinental exchange surprises financial markets by making unsolicited $ 10 billion bid to wrest_chicago_board_of_trade away from its planned merger partner chicago_mercantile_exchange . offer would top price of pending deal . that merger would combine longtime chicago rivals into largest market for financial derivatives contracts in world . ice is offering 10.5 percent premium over value of pending $ 8 billion deal . board of trade 's shareholders would own about 51.5 percent of combined company , which would be based in chicago and have its headquarters at board of trade 's building . new entity would be run by ice 's chief executive jeffrey_c_sprecher . board of trade trades bond futures and agricultural contracts .
 david_chappell essay , marking 50th anniversary of brown_vs_board_of_education , on possible alternatives to affirmative action as means to eliminate inequality between black and white americans . focuses on arguments made in books all deliberate speed : reflections on the first half-century of brown v board of education by charles_j_ogletree jr , the failures of integration : how race and class are undermining the american dream by sheryl_cashin , the pursuit of fairness : a history of affirmative action by terry_h_anderson and silent convenants : brown v board of education and the unfulfilled hopes for racial reform by derrick_bell .
 family and friends of pfc jessica_lynch , just rescued from iraqi_hospital in nasiriya , say they are certain she was saved by power of prayer and by resilience fostered by her modest west_virginia roots . everybody in hometown of palestine , west_virginia , is jubilant at news that she is safe . aides say gov bob wise of west_virginia may issue proclamation declaring ` jessica_lynch day ' .
 us administrator in iraq paul_bremer makes hurried return to washington for urgent talks with bush administration officials on speeding up transfer of power to iraqis . meets with vice pres cheney , secs donald_rumsfeld and colin_powell and security adviser condoleezza_rice as pres bush gives veterans day speech vowing to stabilize iraq . photo . lt gen ricardo sanchez outlines tougher new approach to combat operations , saying us forces are facing ` war ' . us officials are impatient with progress of appointed iraqi_governing_council on planning political transition .
 american_international_group is target of federal grand jury investigation over its role in helping cellphone distributor brightpoint_inc of plainfield , ind , cover up millions in business losses . aig agreed year ago to pay $ 10 million to settle_securities_and_exchange_commission complaint that it provided contract for brightpoint that had appearance of insurance but was merely exchange of money . deal allowed brightpoint to reduce its losses for 1998 by nearly $ 12 million . aig did not admit any wrongdoing in settlement . aig chairman-chief executive maurice_r_greenberg comments .
 new_york_city clears three gardens in brownsville section of brooklyn in order to build 2,000 apartments . mayor michael_r_bloomberg and new_york state attorney general eliot_spitzer reached agreement last year to preserve 500 gardens . number of local gardeners did not clear their plots because they say one of project 's developers diversified inch by inch told them it would find alternative sites on which to build .
 possibility that united_states might end its nearly three-decade policy against direct talks with iran arose out of small white_house lunch at which sec_of_state_condoleezza_rice warned pres bush that coalition against iran was at risk of falling apart . final decision to offer talks came only after conversations with russian pres vladimir_putin and german chancellor angela_merkel led bush to conclude they would support sanctions if iran refused to suspend uranium-enrichment .
 lawyers for american_international_group former chief executive maurice_r_greenberg reportedly have approached regulators to try to limit scope of issues discussed when he is deposed at new_york atty gen_eliot_spitzer 's office . spitzer says he has evidence greenberg committed fraud in initiating aig deal with berkshire_hathaway 's general re unit , television interview . notes aig has already admitted over billion dollars of accounting frauds . says he has not uncovered evidence against berkshire_hathaway_chairman_warren_e_buffett . again says buffett is not probe target . federal and state regulators plan to interview buffett .
 council of economic advisers chairman n gregory_mankiw op-ed article supports pres bush 's contention that us economy is strong and that his policies are making it stronger . notes that over past year , gross domestic product has grown by 4.8 percent , among fastest rates in 20 years , and economy has shown net gain of 1.5 million jobs .
 article on sag harbor mayor lauren_fortmiller , who has decided not to wait until after spring election to let her sexual orientation be known . fortmiller and partner , pamela_thiele , were joined in civil_union in vermont last october and held commitment ceremony on december 28 in sag_harbor . fortmiller has not yet decided whether to seek second term .
 federal authorities say they conduct terrorism probe into kamran_shaikh , illegal immigrant from pakistan found with videotapes of downtown buildings and transit systems in four southern_states and texas dam . say they have no direct evidence linking former queens resident to terrorism . his arrest three weeks ago in charlotte , nc , on immigration charges underscores increasing nervousness among federal counterterrorism officials about possibility of terrorist attack in near future .
 matt steeple and other football players on new_york dragons say they enjoy new lives on long_island . photos . group led by charles_wang_moved_iowa_barnstormers_franchise_of_arena_football_league three years ago , relocated to nassau_coliseum and renamed team . wang , retired founder of computer_associates , lives in oyster bay and owns more than 50 homes there , including one where six players live .
 john_hancock_financial_services comes under criticism for raising pay package of its chief executive , david f d ' alessandro , to $ 21.7 million in 2002 , up from $ 8.2 million year before , even though company 's stock price fell 32.4 percent in 2002 and its earnings dropped 15.4 percent . stock analysts and executive compensation experts say d ' alessandro 's pay is not in keeping with concept that chief executive 's pay should reflect his contribution to company 's earnings and share price .
 new_york_state_senate republicans , in stunning political power play led by sen joseph_bruno , introduce and pass bill that would allow landlords to take thousands more new_york_city apartments off rent regulation over next eight years . bill , engineered by senate republicans and gov george_pataki , codifies existing regulations allowing landlords to begin charging market rates for vacated rent-stabilized apartments once rent reaches $ 2,000 a month even if they later charge less . change is seen as major blow for tenant groups .
 ahmed abdel_sattar , staten_island postal worker and one of two co-defendants of lynne_f_stewart in terrorism trial in manhattan , gives testimony in which he portrays himself as diplomat who undertook one-man global campaign to negotiate permanent end to over two decades of fighting in egypt between government and gamaa_islamiya_islamic_group . phone taps revealed he was in touch with alaa_atia , terrorist killed trying to escape egypt , and rifai_taha , islamic military leader .
 article on citigroup chairman sanford_weill , who has been forced to watch from sidelines as financial services empire he painstakingly built over two decades is slowly dismantled . weill stepped down as chief executive of citigroup two years ago . has been blamed for host of regulatory and ethical lapses that occurred on his watch that have damaged bank 's reputation . under weill 's hand-picked successor , charles_o_prince , citigroup is struggling to find its way as its once-soaring stock sags and its earnings performance becomes increasingly erratic .
 robert b willumstad is stepping down from no . 2 post at citigroup to seek chief executive position at public company . was stymied in his effort to become chief executive at citigroup when charles o prince was selected for job in 2003 . some analysts have suggested that willumstad 's job duties have diminished in recent months as citigroup has shed some of less profitable units that he has overseen . citigroup will not replace him .
 at&_t says it will stop marketing its phone services to residents in seven states , citing bush administration decision not to intercede in court ruling overturning federal_communications_commission rules that bell phone companies must provide competitive access to their networks . scales back its revenue and operating income forecasts for year , citing decision and industrywide pressure to cut prices . analysts say move could presage similar steps by other providers that lease lines from bells . at & t will continue to provide service to existing residential customers in seven states , arkansas , louisiana , missouri , new_hampshire , ohio , tennessee and washington . that warns all consumers may face higher prices and fewer choices in their phone service . maps . market share graphs .
 pres bush opens five-country tour of africa with promise in senegal to work more closely to help african countries build for future . does not commit to sending us troops to help keep peace in liberia and repeats demand that pres charles_taylor step aside . goes with senegal pres abdoulaye wade to goree_island , where slaves were sent on journey across ocean . photo . bush does not apologize for role of us but condemns slavery in unflinching , religious terms . sec colin_powell and security adviser condoleezza_rice tour island with bush .
 richard_keith , founder of private escapes destination club , buys glass penthouse at 1600 broadway for $ 2.8 million , sixth apartment he has bought in manhattan for use by club members . darius_kasparaitis , hockey player for new_york_rangers , buys condominium apartment at 205 east 59th street for $ 2.14 million . robert_j_dinicola , chairman of linens ` n things , buys five-story town house on east 64th street for $ 14.85 million .
 mark_mangelsdorf , 45 , of pelham , ny , long suspected in 1982 bludgeoning death of david_harmon in olathe , kansas , is charged with murder and conspiracy to commit murder . kansas authorities say victim 's widow melinda_harmon_raisch and mangelsdorf were romantically involved and murdered harmon . raisch 's trial is set to begin on april 11 .
 article on martin_amis , whose last novel , yellow dog , was panned by critics , garnered relatively few sales and concluded his much-publicized 1988 contract with miramax . agent andrew_wylie says amis is spending year in uruguay and says relationship with miramax is happy . miramax books publicist hilary_bass concurs and says miramax relationship with amis is expected to continue .
 qwest_communications is not giving up its efforts to stop verizon_communications , its bigger rival , from acquiring mci . qwest requests mci 's shareholder list in move that could lead to protracted , if uphill , proxy battle that qwest hopes will convince those holding majority of mci 's shares of superiority of its bid . qwest 's chief financial officer oren_shaffer says there is clearly anger among some mci shareholders . mci 's board says qwest 's $ 8.9 billion bid is not superior to verizon 's $ 7.6 billion offer .
 the week column . nassau county executive thomas_suozzi submits $ 2.4 billion budget without any tax increases . critics say budget anticipates $ 25 million in revenue that may not materialize . suffolk county executive steve_levy proposes $ 2.7 billion budget that includes small tax reduction . critics say reluctance by predecessor thomas_gulotta to raise taxes was considered big factor in county 's near bankruptcy . suffolk county_community_college breaks ground on $ 6 million building in riverhead for culinary arts students .
 millions of people in spain stream into streets in nationwide demonstration against violence that left nearly 200 people dead and over 1,400 wounded in explosions on four commuter trains in madrid . government asserts that basque separatist group eta and not al_qaeda is responsible for attack , although evidence is confusing . political stakes in uncovering identity of terrorists are high . spain 's voters will elect new government on march 14 . prime min jose_maria_aznar 's decision to join us war effort in iraq and send 1,300 troops there was overwhelmingly opposed by people . it could affect elections outcome if al_qaeda is shown to be involved in bomb attacks .
 individual investors lead charge back into stock market , with standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index rising 13 percent and nasdaq composite up 23 percent . three years of stock market torment seem not to have shaken long-held view that stocks are best for long haul . some wall street veterans say market 's recent action has familiar and troubling feel that harks back to heady days of 1999 . wonder whether investors , in their zeal to recover some losses in their portfolios , are too willing to forgive and forget lessons of torturous bear market . in most recent week , investors put $ 3.3 billion into domestic stock mutual funds . it was 14th consecutive week that more money flowed into than out of stock funds . with so much bullishness about , companies are finding it easier to raise money in stock market .
 army 's third infantry division plunges deep into iraq , skirmishing with iraqi_army and militia forces as it nears outer ring of baghdad 's defenses . unfettered air strikes batter overwhelmed iraqi troops trying to slow advance from rudimentary sandbagged positions north of najaf . division 's advance sweeps american forces past cities of nasiriya , samawa and now najaf . those cities have not fallen so much as simply been passed by .
 patricia_e_harris , new_york_city 's new first deputy mayor , is trusted longtime aide to mayor michael_bloomberg and first woman to hold post . photos . she will run city whenever bloomberg leaves and oversee second-term agenda as he seizes on momentum from his huge electoral victory . harris has avoided spotlight since joining administration in 2001 and has almost no relationship with press_corps . she is nevertheless by far the most powerful figure in administration , stemming from previous work at bloomberg_lp_directing_bloomberg 's philanthropy . no major policy or personnel decisions are made without harris and she is known for fierce attention to detail and perseverance . police comr raymond_kelly recalls her facing down secret service over metal detectors at sept 11 memorial service . longtime friend tim_russert says she is one of few people who can openly challenge bloomberg . harris , 50 , is native new yorker married to lawyer mark d lebow .
 hundreds of people hired by halliburton_co prepare to go to iraq even as other contractors , including general_electric and siemens , suspend their work there in face of escalation of violence that singles out civilians . halliburton , most prominent company in iraq , with government contracts valued at $ 8 billion , appears to be gritting its teeth in anticipation of long slog ahead . many halliburton employees are lured to hazardous jobs by tax-free salaries .
 richard_jewell 's lawyer argues in atlanta court to proceed with libel case against atlanta journal-constitution . newspaper was first to describe jewell as focus of investigation into 1996 olympic park bombing that killed one and injured 111 . jewell was later exonerated . newspaper argues that jewell 's legal team has not demonstrated that paper 's coverage rose to level of actual malice .
 leaders of france , germany , belgium and luxembourg , all opponents of war in iraq , unveil plan for closer cooperation to make europe 's defense more coherent and more independent of us . chancellor gerhard_schroder and others say they aim to reinforce , not undermine , nato . brussels meeting leaves bad feelings among european_union members who were left out . sec_colin_powell_tells_senate panel that what europe needs is not ` more headquarters ' but greater capability .
 saudi arabian officials are seeking to strengthen ties with china and russia after allowing russia 's lukoil and china 's sinopec to be among first foreign businesses to explore saudi natural gas reserves in more than three decades . contracts are signed after protracted talks with several large american energy companies collapsed over differences on terms and amid perceptions of more distant relationship between us and saudi_arabia . two european companies , eni of italy and repsol of spain , do win contracts .
 state sen barack_obama , democratic_us_senate candidate in illinois , is rising political star . insists he is taking nothing for granted in his campaign against republican opponent , alan_keyes , although he is leading keyes in polls by 47 percent . his campaign has raised more than $ 14 million , and obama is giving money to other democratic candidates in tight races .
 dr piotr_bienkowski , university_of_manchester -lrb- eng -rrb- archaeologist , and dr katharina_galor of brown_university , who specializes in archaeology of israel , organize symposium crossing the rift : resources , routes , settlement patterns and interactions in the wadi arabah . meeting , originally scheduled to be held in jerusalem , was held in atlanta -lrb- georgia -rrb- when middle_east tensions heightened . wadi arabah region , straddling border between jordan and israel , is considered long-time trade and water route and therefore rife with excavation sites , many of which date back to early bronze age 5,000 years ago . brief history of region given . regional archaeological findings discussed .
 viacom_inc chief executive sumner m redstone 's apparent decision to split company into two pieces is seen as admission his acquisition strategy did not work . news that redstone is weighing split of sprawling media conglomerate -- owner of mtv , cbs , paramount pictures and simon_&_schuster -- has sent viacom 's stock up 8.3 percent over last_two_days , to close at $ 36.72 per share . viacom co-presidents tom_freston and les_moonves , who would run two companies , face difficult tasks , and that has left some wall street analysts skeptical of long-term value of splitting company .
 american technology companies , including cisco_systems , ge , ibm , intel , motorola and texas instruments , are generating significant number of patents through their engineering units in india . outsourcing of research-and-development operations is relatively new and growing trend , driven by companies ' need to generate quick breakthroughs and develop products while curbing costs . thousands of engineers in disciplines as diverse as textile engineering and aeronautics graduate each year from india 's engineering schools , and top-notch graduates can be hired at salaries beginning at $ 10,000 a year , even as their peers in us earn six times that amount or more .
 illegal workers from russia , belarus and ukraine are streaming into latvia by hundreds , if not thousands , to help fill gap left by nearly 100,000 latvians who left in search of better life since their country joined european_union in may 2004 . influx stokes fears in tiny country , which is still grappling with how to integrate more than 800,000 russian speakers who arrived after 1940 occupation of country by soviet_union . anxiety is fanned by strong memories of that occupation .
 charles_isherwood critic 's notebook on humana festival of new american plays in louisville , ky , which is in its 30th year . notes plays natural selection by eric_coble , act a lady by jordan_harrison , six years by sharr_white , hotel cassiopeia by charles_l_mee and anne_bogart and the scene by theresa_rebeck .
 witnesses and police official say american soldiers killed iraqi man and boy and wounded four others in car that was driving behind their convoy in baghdad , after roadside bomb went off nearby . soldier at scene of violence says bomb killed two iraqi civilians and wounded two others . earlier in day , roadside bomb in baghdad kills soldier and wounds two others . another roadside bomb explodes near army convoy in ramadi . residents there say americans opened fire after attack and killed two iraqis .
 treasury sec john w snow , commerce_sec donald l evans and labor sec elaine l chao roll by bus across industrial swath of upper_midwest , carrying message of sunshine about pres bush 's economic policies and tax cuts to often skeptical audiences . ` jobs and growth tour ' rumbles through wisconsin and minnesota in what democrats deride as campaign swing . stops include harley-davidson factory outside milwaukee .
 interview with dr john_waterbury , president of american_university_of_beirut , about institution 's ability to survive current conflict in southern lebanon between hezbollah and israel . he is in united_states seeking humanitarian aid and is trying to arrange his return . says it is unclear whether university , which suspended summer classes , will resume regular classes in october . says school depends on good will of all parties to leave university intact .
 number of inmates at new_york_city jails is up 9 percent since jan_1 , putting jails at close to capacity of 15,000 . census at 10 city jails is 13,793 . officials say brooklyn_house_of_detention , closed since 2003 , will reopen if trend continues . officials are unsure of reason for increase in inmate population .
 deal to freeze north_korea 's nuclear program in exchange for food and fuel aid immediately effects japan and north_korea . south_korea invites north_korea to resume ministerial talks suspended in oct 2006 . japan refuses to provide aid to north_korea over what it says are unresolved cases of japanese abducted by north korean agents . critics say tokyo 's narrow focus on issue will leave it isolated .
 article on anne_umland , ann_temkin and joachim_pissarro , new curatorial team at new_york 's museum of modern art hired by john_enderfield , museum 's chief curator of painting and sculpture . three , all of whom are 44 , comment on working in collaboration with one another and what they expect to gain from and give to their new jobs .
 clyde_haberman column on rep carolyn_mccarthy 's tireless efforts to promote stronger gun control law through years since her husband , dennis , was fatally shot by colin_ferguson on long_island railroad in dec 1993 in rampage that also seriously wounded her son , kevin . notes that mccarthy has been at forefront of struggle to renew ban on assault weapons .
 cross-cultural unions are rare among masai , kenya 's most traditional tribe , but they do occur . maki_nagamatsu , japanese tour guide in kenya , recently married masai warrior who already had one wife . he has agreed not to take third wife . jacqueline_roumeguere-eberhardt , french anthropologist who arrived in kenya in 1960 's and has been married to masai man since then , is writing book about being married to man with eight other wives .
 sen john_d_rockefeller_iv , new chairman of senate_intelligence_committee , criticizes bush administration 's increasingly combative stance toward iran , saying that white_house efforts to portray it as growing threat are reminiscent of rhetoric about iraq before us invasion in 2003 . he agrees with white_house that iranian operatives inside iraq are supporting shiite militias and working against us troops . rockefeller 's comments reflect mounting concerns being voiced by other influential democrats about bush administration 's approach to iran .
 senate leaders , brushing aside white_house objections , choose not to vote until late jan on huge spending bill consolidating 7 of 13 appropriations bills that finance federal government . delay means third of government will have to operate on last_year 's budget for first four months of current fiscal year . sen bill frist blames delay on extended negotiations with white_house .
 sen christopher_j_dodd , in sign of growing democratic despair after nov 2 elections , is considering running for governor of connecticut in 2006 . he would be among three democratic senators from new_york region giving thought to such leap , particularly in wake of elections , when republicans expanded their majority in senate with gain of four seats . sen jon_corzine of new jersey and sen charles_e_schumer of new_york are said to be dispirited over their continued minority status , and reality that their party does not appear to have shot at winning majority soon .
 bank of england , in surprise move , raises interest rates 0.25 percent , to 5.25 percent , to head off rising inflation amid housing boom and strong economic growth . european central bank , meeting in frankfurt , leaves borrowing costs at five-year high of 3.5 percent . hints it could raise rates as early as march to guard against rising prices if european economy continues to expand .
 federal grand jury indicts rep william_j_jefferson of louisiana on 16 corruption-related felony counts . indictment results from investigation that included fbi raid at his congressional office . indictment says that from 2000 to 2005 , jefferson sought hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from several companies and charges that he used his position as member of house ways and means subcommittee to promote companies ' business ventures . indictment of jefferson , democrat , threatens to taint democratic party 's promise to bring ethics overhaul to congress .
 economic recovery and security are inextricably linked in iraq . recent poll of iraqis in six cities found 98 percent say job creation would be ` very effective ' in improving security , but investment that could produce new jobs is not likely amid current violence and chaos , and unemployment rate is estimated at 22 percent to 30 percent . united states will direct half of $ 18.7 billion reconstruction funding to local employers rather than foreign contractors , creating up to one million jobs over next few years .
 new_york gov george_pataki and his advisers , determined to rally huge voter turnout for pres bush in 2004 election , appear to have abandoned plans to seriously challenge incumbent sen charles_schumer , popular democrat , mindful that it would mobilize opposition , thus undermining bush 's prospects in new_york . shift in priorities reflects level of support that bush has picked up in new_york , heavily democratic state . republican party officials have had difficult time recruiting candidate to face schumer .
 morgan_stanley , in reversal of strategic decision made last spring , says it will keep its discover card business and will not seek to spin it off . chief executive john_j_mack says firm will overhaul its struggling retail division and sell its airplane leasing business , which has fleet of 157 planes . firm says board has three new members : roy_j_bostock , charles_h_noski and o griffith_sexton -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 cbs chairman leslie_moonves announces that he had canceled wednesday edition of ` 60 minutes , ' six-year-old spinoff of sunday evening staple . most visible result of moonves 's decision is reassignment of dan_rather , full-time correspondent of weekday edition of ` 60 minutes , ' to sunday program . rather , whose contract does not expire until 2006 , says that his transition to new job will begin immediately .
 dow jones industrial average drops 71.24 points , to 10,930.90 . standard & poor 's 500-stock index falls 7.70 points , to 1,256.15 . nasdaq composite index slips 10.98 points , to 2,151.80 . price and yield of 10-year us_treasury note noted . oil drops $ 1.68 per barrel , or 2.3 percent , to $ 70.82 in new_york trading , apparently responding to news that outlook improved for discussions with iran over its nuclear program .
 profile of and interview with dr jean-christophe_rufin , 52 , former member of doctors without borders who served two conservative french governments as troubleshooter and currently heads action against hunger . rufin has published three novels in seven years and his latest , globalia , has been on l ' express 's best-seller list for 15 weeks .
 emi_group chairman eric_nicoli , who has been trying to execute major deal with competitor since taking over music company in 1999 , may have missed out on chance to merge with time_warner_inc 's warner_music unit now that bertelsmann_ag and sony_corp have agreed to join their music divisions . analysts say european regulators might be persuaded by music industry 's woes to approve one such deal , but are highly unlikely to approve two deals . emi also faces possible competition for warner music from edgar_bronfman jr and haim_saban .
 new_york state governor george_e_pataki meets with state_senate majority leader joseph_l_bruno and assembly speaker sheldon_silver and contends that two legislative leaders have agreed to restore less money to programs pataki wants to cut . democrats in assembly deny that they backed down from pledge to put back into budget millions of dollars pataki says he will cut , creating confusion in albany .
 yonkers is recovering so well from decades of corruption and racial problems that seven candidates vying in primaries for mayor of yonkers have few big issues to throw at ech other . assemblyman michael_j_spano , deputy mayor phil_amicone and councilwoman vicenza_restiano seek republican nomination . joe l farmer , john_liszewski , sam_borelli and pauline_m_galvin seek democratic nomination .
 officials in california will choose site for new embryonic stem cell research headquarters , after fierce competition . program was authorized when voters committed $ 300 million a year in bond money over next 10 years , making it largest state-sponsored research endeavor ever . leading contenders are san_francisco , sacramento and san_diego . bidding packages described .
 connecticut 's democratic-led legislature approves two-year , $ 27.7 billion budget package , and gov john_g_rowland says he will veto it because it raises too many taxes , relies on ` budgetary gimmicks ' and exceeds mandatory cap on yearly spending growth . stalemate will force lawmakers and rowland into special session . they are only abut $ 300 million apart on solution to closing projected $ 1 billion deficit in $ 13.5 billion budget for 2004 .
 profile of richard_l_lattis , general director for living institutions at wildlife_conservation_society , nonprofit group that runs city 's four zoos and its aquarium . he expresses concern about mayor bloomberg 's doomsday budget , which would take away $ 5.8 million to manage zoos in brooklyn 's prospect park and queens 's flushing meadow-corona park .
 general_motors_corp says it nearly tripled its profits last year and beat wall street expectations in fourth_quarter . results mean resumption of bonuses for workers . fourth-quarter net earnings were $ 1.02 billion compared with $ 255 million year earlier . revenue was record $ 48.66 billion . posts net earnigns of $ 1.7 billion for year on revenue of $ 186.8 billion . chairman john_f_smith_jr_comments .
 profile of guantanamo_bay_naval_base , which had become little more than refueling stop for ships before arrival of hundreds of detainees from afghanistan war and elsewhere , but in past year has grown into bustling village of 9,500 people . permanent prison outside camp delta can hold 100 prisoners , and another under construction will bring long-term capacity to about 320 .
 plight of 11 democratic senators from texas hiding out in albuquerque , nm , since july 28 to deny quorum for vote on republican redistricting plan has been largely ignored while pundits fixate on effort to recall california gov gray davis . plan could give republicans half-dozen extra seats in house , where democrats in texas delegation now hold 17-to-15 edge . democrats call redistricting effort and recall part of much larger national power grab by powerful republican players like rep tom delay , karl rove and pres bush .
 pentagon officials say china is focusing its growing defense spending on weapons systems that could exploit perceived american military weaknesses in case united_states ever needs to respond to fighting in taiwan . say china has purchased or built enough amphibious assault ships , submarines , fighter jets and short-range missiles to pose immediate threat to taiwan and to any american force that might come to taiwan 's aid . some american military analysts believe china could now defeat taiwan before american forces could arrive at scene . even most hawkish officials at pentagon do not believe china is preparing for imminent invasion of taiwan , but it is quietly challenging america 's reach in western pacific by concentrating strategically on conventional forces .
 laura_bush , one of most unexamined first ladies in recent history , collected nearly $ 2 million last_month at three fund-raisers for her husband 's re-election campaign , and campaign officials expect her to appear at some 20 more . her image as first librarian has tempered her expanding role as formidable political asset in highly political white_house and helps ensure that her multimillion-dollar re-election fund-raising attracts little notice .
 car bomb explodes outside police headquarters in baquba , iraq , killing driver and at least two bystanders and wounding 26 others , mostly policemen . gen mark_kimmitt announces capture of khamis_sirhan_al-muhammad , 54 on us list of 55 most-wanted former officials . two pakistanis and one turk traveling with supply convoy are killed near tikrit . 62 bulgarian soldiers reportedly have left 480-member peacekeeping unit bound for iraq . francis_j_ricciardone is named state department director of policy on iraq .
 sen john_kerry holds upper hand in democratic primary in virginia on feb 10 . aides say victory would undercut sen john_edwards 's southern_base and pres bush 's strength among military voters . kerry was written off in virginia just month ago . he has clearly benefited from fading candidacy of howard_dean , and from aggressive campaign of gen wesley_k_clark that has cut into edwards 's support . kerry 's strong status in virginia is bolstered when gov mark warner endorses him . dean has all but conceded virginia to concentrate on michigan .
 richard_f_scruggs , lawyer who helped win $ 250 billion settlement from tobacco industry , files lawsuit to force insurance companies to pay for damages to tens of thousands of homes caused by surging water driven from gulf_of mexico by hurricane katrina . suit names nationwide mutual insurance and is filed on behalf of couple in pascagoula , miss . insurers say their policies specifically exclude coverage for any kind of flooding .
 keith_rubenstein signs contract to buy duncan mansion at 8 east 62nd street for $ 35 million after backing out of $ 20 million deal for duplex at 101 warren street in lower manhattan . shvo marketing company is selling renderings of conversion of condominium units at 650 sixth avenue at its combination sales office and gallery . charles_schwab or family member buys apartment at 834 fifth avenue for $ 27 million , $ 11 million over asking price .
 annual report by connecticut_trust for historic preservation lists three historic homes owned by yale_university and bridgeport fountain created by gutzon_borglum_of_mount_rushmore fame as most threatened historic places in state . trust says circa 1690 thomas_lyon_house in greenwich , which was moved in 1926 to save it from destruction , is vacant and in poor condition . criticizes yale for demolishing historic buildings by letting them fall into disrepair and then claiming repairs are too expensive .
 judge john_g_roberts jr becomes 17th chief justice of united_states , taking oath of office during brief but emotional_white_house ceremony just hours after senate , with democrats evenly divided , votes overwhelmingly to confirm him . 22 democrats -- half the caucus -- join all 55 republicans in confirming roberts . pres bush declares tha senate has confirmed man with ` astute mind and a kind heart ' .
 new_york_yankees acquisition of infielder alex_rodriguez in deal that took less than one week irks boston_red_sox owner john_henry , who tried to negotiate trade for rodriguez earlier in offseason . henry criticizes new_york_yankees and owner george_steinbrenner for seemingly endless financial resources , and steinbrenner patronizes henry for not being able to make rodriguez deal .
 american_international_group will have to delay filing of its annual 10-k report as it continues to wade through extensive accounting problems . company is expected to reduce its net worth by total of $ 2.7 billion to $ 2.9 billion , increase of $ 1 billion to $ 1.2 billion from company 's earlier estimate of $ 1.7 billion .
 thousands of parents attend graduation ceremonies at virginia_tech , nearly month after nation 's deadliest shooting rampage . about 3,600 seniors graduate this year . most of them will receive their diplomas in small departmental ceremonies . retired gen john_p_abizaid is keynote speaker at main ceremony . poet nikki_giovanni , english professor who taught gunman , seung-hui_cho , will speak at her department 's ceremony . cho killed 32 people , including himself , on april 16 .
 richard t meehan , lawyer for bridgeport mayor joseph_p_ganim , cross-examines ganim 's former friend and aide paul_pinto in ganim 's corruption trial . pinto admits that he was part of many illegal deals from 1995 through 2000 , but rejects notion that he was shaking down contractors using ganim 's name but without his consent .
 police arrest ronell_wilson , who they believe fatally shot dets rodney j andrews and james v nemorin on staten_island . also arrest paris_bullock , bringing total number arrested in connection with killings to six . believe wilson shot both detectives during attempted robbery as police were sitting in car with another suspect , jesse_jacobus , and posing as gun buyers . say omar green arranged gun sale and that mitchell_diaz of lancaster , pa , provided revolver used in killings . charges are pending against bullock and michael_whiten .
 los angeles voters will once again choose between james_k_hahn and antonio_villaraigosa for mayor on may 17 , in rematch of 2001 primary contest . conditions this time are starkly different . mayor hahn has role of underdog this time and villaraigosa seems to be on his way to victory . hahn 's job approval rating is 38 percent .
 at least 22 mexican citizens have died fighting for united_states in two years of war in iraq , among 63 immigrants who have been killed there . total of 41,000 permanent resident aliens are in us armed forces , 3,639 of them from mexico . many mexicans see armed service as fast track to american citizenship .
 tourists are reluctant to travel to europe during war in iraq . if war ends soon , american animosity toward france and germany , opponents of war , may continue to curtail travel . economists at oxford economic forecasting recently estimated that prolonged war could cost european_union 's 15 member countries as many as 260,000 jobs , and slice economic output by as much as 0.7 percent .
 city university_of_new_york proposes to raise undergraduate tuition next year to $ 4,000 from $ 3,200 for in-state students at its senior colleges . increase would be first since 1995 and is significantly lower than $ 1,200 increase recommended by gov george_e_pataki in his executive budget and $ 950 increase called for in budget approved by state legislature .
 euro disney , seeking to complete refinancing of its troubled theme parks , says it will raise 253 million euros , or $ 328 million , by selling shares at 0.09 euro each , or 11.7 cents . rights offering is final part of euro disney 's second financial restructuring . euro disney chief financial officer jeffrey speed photo .
 mamdouh_habib , who was seized in pakistan in 2001 and released from guantanamo_prison in feb 2005 , is now in australia , running for election to parliament in new_south_wales . photo . he describes torture he says he underwent while held in egypt . habib was recruited to run in multiracial district by antiwar campaigner raul_bassi . us and australian officials say habib trained with al_qaeda in afghanistan .
 bill_richardson , newly sworn in as new mexico governor , takes on unexpected role in effort to defuse nuclear confrontation involving north_korea at request of han_song_ryol , one of north_korea 's united_nations envoys . two have known each other for years . richardson , who has visited north_korea in past as negotiator , stresses he acts unofficially , passing along data to state sec colin l powell . makes clear that he does not ignore state problems .
 survey released by institute_for_supply_management shows highest level for us manufacturing sector since 1983 , suggesting that last year 's economic recovery will continue . however , survey also shows that unemployment in manufacturing sector rose once again , reaching near-record levels . analysts say that growth in manufacturing may signal imminent reverse in recent unemployment rise . predict that us economy as whole should continue to grow at annual rate of 4 percent to 5 percent in 2004 .
 three new projects call for building housing around connecticut golf courses . 53 single family homes are set for perimeter of fox_hopyard_golf_club , east_haddam , project that is most advanced . total of 150 homes are proposed for golf course approved last year in east lyme . lehman brothers proposes building 248 homes and golf course on 550 acres in old saybrook and deeding rest of 1,000-acre site to town as permanent open space .
 parks in less affluent areas of new_york_city are being repaired and maintained with help from private and corporate sponsors . 50 percent of city 's 1,700 parks and playgrounds have been adopted by volunteers , up from 40 percent in 2003 , while nine nonprofit groups have donated $ 60 milllion for park restoration . city is also raising money for parks through concessions and park rentals .
 democrats force senate to postpone vote on john_r_bolton as ambassador to united_nations , demanding that white_house first hand over classified information about his conduct that it has refused for weeks to provide . bolton still appears poised to win confirmation if his nomination is put to up or down vote , but republican-led effort to end debate on him falls 4 votes short of 60 necessary to bring nomination to final roll-call . showdown on senate floor guarantees more chapters to come in political battle that has raged since bolton was nominated by pres bush more than 11 weeks ago . struggle has been sharpest in years over nomination to major foreign policy post , and most fractious fight ever over american envoy to united_nations .
 charles c mann thanksgiving day op-ed article contends that ecosystems that evolved separately for millennia collided when pilgrims arrived in plymouth , mass , in 1620 . holds that ever since plymouth , americans have lived in new and distinctly contemporary kind of environment , one marked by continued , rapid ecological change . says what was being created on first thanksgiving was nothing less than american landscape itself .
 south korean prime min goh kun pledges continuity in national policies after national assembly impeaches pres roh moo hyun . nation remains calm , though 50,000 people stage protest in seoul , and impeachment by opposition parties may rally_supporters_of_roh 's uri_party in april 15 elections . about 75 percent of respondents to three polls oppose impeachment .
 federal jury in manhattan is set to begin deliberation in case of man who calls himself havelock woo but who prosecutors say is actually chinese immigrant who reached back in time to steal that name of real new yorker who was born in 1927 and then used it to perpetrate fraud on united_states government with goal of bringing his relatives from china . prosecutors say real havelock woo died in new jersey in 1988 . defense contends that defendant is who he says he is , havelock_woo , and that he was born in new_york_city 75_years_ago , moved to china , and returned to new_york in 1992 .
 general_motors expects to take $ 1 billion charge in second_quarter and pay total of $ 7 billion to cover retirement costs for workers at delphi_corp , its former parts division . says it has received new request for accounting documents from securities_and_exchange_commission , which has been investigating gm 's accounting practices for nearly two years .
 james e mcgreevey outlasts deadline that would have called for gubernatorial election in november to replace him as governor of new jersey . golan cipel , now in israel , says he settled lawsuit before resignation for $ 2 million and private letter of apology . claims that he is heterosexual and was coerced into sexual liasions by mcgreevey . mcgreevey says cipel demanded money to settle but they never reached agreement . many of state 's political officials believe that there is more to story , possibly involving personal indiscretions or outright corruption by mcgreevey that cipel might have known about : photo .
 citigroup reports strong results for first_quarter . net income was $ 4.1 billion , down from $ 4.8 billion year earlier . profits from continuing operations rose 18 percent from year ago . stock analysts as well as company 's executives express relief that company appears to have finally put long list of problems behind it . chief executive sanford i weill comments .
 relationship between city of anaheim , calif , and walt_disney_co has become strained over city_council 's approval of plans for 1,500 apartments on 26-acre site near disneyland theme park . disney says goal is to keep housing out of special zoning district that was created in 1994 . company has filed lawsuit against city and is calling for public referendums , one that would allow voters to overturn city council 's decision and one that would make resort zoning part of anaheim 's city charter .
 article on collaboration by ceramic artist katherine_hackl of lambertville , sculptor marilyn_keating of gloucester_city and painter hiroshi_murata , formerly of frenchtown , on $ 525,000 public art works project commissioned by southern_new_jersey_light_rail_transit_system . art project has been completed on time and within budget , but line has not yet opened .
 unexpectedly bad employment report for august puts bush administration on defensive in arguing that tax cuts are best prescription for ailing economy . nearly 2.7 million nonfarm jobs have been lost during bush 's tenure , with august numbers highest since march . many economists believe that economy , while improving , is unlikely to generate significant employment growth in near future . bush says congress should make recent tax cuts permanent , speech , indianapolis .
 love israel commune , enduring relic of hippie era , sells 300-acre headquarters in arlington , washington , after years of negative stories and money woes . photos . founder love israel , former salesman from haight-ashbury , organized group in 1968 on principles of christian love and says that , at 63 , he plans to start new commune , possibly in part of eastern washington with fewer zoning rules .
 pres bush 's initiative to spend $ 15 billion on global aids programs is getting bogged down in partisan disputes over how to spend aid and whether money should be steered away from international clinics if they promote abortion . white_house seeks $ 200 million for global aids campaign this year , while sen john_kerry wants $ 1 billion .
 environmental protection agency estimates that people threw away 2.5 million tons of electronic equipment , known as e-waste , last_year , about 10 percent of which was recycled . federal law regulates disposal of electronics by businesses and government agencies , but it does not affect individual consumers , who account for more than half e-waste produced annually . california , maine , maryland , massachusetts , minnesota and washington have passed laws requiring people to recycle electronic trash . new_york state legislature is expected to consider such bill next year , but until then bulk of effort has been left to local programs like one in north_hempstead , ny . photo .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column on dealing with two greatest nuclear proliferation threats today : north_korea and iran . says north korean program should be shut down immediately by china , which provides roughly half of north_korea 's energy and one-third of its food supplies . says european_union should tell iran to shut down its nuclear program or face total economic boycott .
 deputy sec robert b zoellick arrives in nicaragua for talks to boost pres enrique_bolanos , who zoellick says is facing ` creeping coup ' by ` corrupt and dangerous leaders of the past ' . bolanos , elected in 2001 , is battling sandinista leader daniel_ortega , who has lost three elections , and arnoldo_aleman , former president sentenced to prison for embezzling $ 100 million .
 bankruptcy filing by delphi may force_united_automobile_workers to make major concessions on wages and benefits at company or accept them from bankruptcy judge , and any concessions could affect uaw 's negotiations on new contract with general_motors , ford and daimlerchrysler , especially with regard to benefits . ` delphi is seeking to cut pay for its 34,000 unionized workers by as much as two-thirds , to as little as $ 10 an hour . gm says filing by delphi , which it spun off in 1999 with certain guarantees on pensions and health care and life insurance benefits of retirees in event of bankruptcy , could increase long-term liabilities on its books by as much as $ 11 billion .
 saudi_arabia 's economy is expected to deliver second_year of growth in 2004 , helped by highest sustained oil prices in more than two decades , though its performance is expected to fall short of surprising 6 percent increase in output last year . there is considerable concern whether economy will grow fast enough to alleviate social concerns like unemployment , which stands at 10 percent in government figures but is probably above 13 percent .
 demographers are identifying emerging racial generation gap . census bureau estimates from july 1_, 2005 , to july 1_, 2006 , nation 's minority population grew to 100.7 million from 98.3 million , about 33 percent of all americans . development may portend nation split between older , whiter electorate and younger overall population that is more hispanic , black and asian and that presses sometimes competing agendas and priorities .
 democrats decry sen zell_miller , who delivered keynote speech at republican convention 12 years after giving impassioned speech at democratic convention , and just three years after introducing sen john_kerry as ` authentic war hero ' . republicans , still smarting over appearance at democratic convention by ron_reagan , see payback in miller 's speech , and hope he will bring swing voters , especially conservative southern democratics disenchanted with national_party , to pres bush 's side .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg proposes budget of $ 45.7 billion for fiscal year 2005 that calls for few cuts in services , no layoffs , little state and federal aid , and property tax rebate for homeowners . budget reflects city 's improving economy . its $ 2 billion deficit is fraction of other deficits bloomberg has had to wrestled with since taking office .
 inchon , south_korea , plans to build twin skyscrapers reaching 2,013 feet into sky , higher than tallest building in world . developers in seoul have responded by increasing height of skyscraper they were planning by 66 feet . chief of seoul_ward has announced even more grandiose plan to erect 220-story building that , at almost 3,200 feet , would be twice as high as sears tower in chicago . inchon and seoul are part of one of biggest booms in tall-building construction since skyscraper appeared over century ago .
 article on building at 200 fifth avenue , at corner of 23rd street , built in 1909 , what has become known as international_toy_center , which has been sold to developer , chetrit_group . 300 or so tenants have year-round leases , but showrooms are generally dark , except during three trade shows each year . rumors are that biggest show , american international toy fair , will leave new_york , where it has been held for 102 years .
 hundreds of iraqis take over highway in front of abu ghraib prison to greet buses carrying out 623 men and one woman freed after months of detention . prisoner release , fourth from abu_ghraib in may , is largest since publication of photos showing american soldiers abusing prisoners . releases have been accelerating ahead of planned transfer of sovereignty to iraqis june 30 .
 fernando ferrer captures 39.949 percent of votes in new_york_city 's democratic mayoral primary , just short of forty percent needed to avoid runoff against repr anthony_weiner , who gets 29 percent . c virginia fields wins 16 percent , gifford_miller 10 percent . turnout is low . photo . tally . at least 8,422 valid absentee ballots still to be counted could determine who gets party nomination to try to unseat mayor michael_bloomberg . ferrer , 55 , is mild-mannered longtime fixture in bronx politics . weiner , 41 , is wisecracking son of brooklyn who says democrats need unorthodox ideas to avoid fourth straight mayoral defeat .
 business at baghdad 's gold market , where ebb and flow of trade has long served as barometer of fortunes of iraq and its people , has been on rise for several months , with improvement in lives of some middle-class iraqis . shopkeepers say monthly profits are three times higher than before american-led forces ousted saddam_hussein in april . iraqis who sold their jewelry for cash during years of united_nations sanctions are indulging in such luxuries again .
 new jersey gov jon_s_corzine and mayor sharpe_james have confrontational meeting over $ 80 million set aside in two private funds for newark . james accuses corzine of meddling in local affairs . funds were created by municipal council as ready source of cash for redevelopment and rehabilitation projects . cory_booker , mayoral hopeful , says fund assures that advisory board headed by james and his allies will have influence even after he leaves office in june .
 bank of tokyo-mitsubishi survey shows sales increased 3.1 percent compared with week_year earlier , biggest gain since january . gain in sales reduces chances that federal_reserve will lower interest rates when it meets next month . commerce department reports that orders for durable goods fell 2.4 percent in april , larger decline than economists had expected .
 news analysis on suggestions that pres bush is not trying to mend fences within nato because advisers are divided over how important old cold-war allies like france and germany are in new war against terror . sec donald_rumsfeld is among those minimizing rift . photo . white_house heaps scorn on france , germany and belgium for refusing to plan for defense of turkey in case of iraq war , and sec_colin_powell charges alliance is breaking itself up by not meeting responsibilities . administration is also exploiting fissures to play off post-soviet states against france and germany .
 washington mutual stops running advertising spot that shows actors playing bankers poised atop building as if about to jump . commercial by leo_burnett is among four spots that had suicide as central point in their humorous or lighthearted narratives . other two commercials with suicide themes that have been withdrawn were four general_motors and volkswagen_of_america . fourth commercial was created by cramer-krasselt for careerbuilders . suicide prevention organizations have criticized ads .
 liquidnet has pioneered electronic marketplace that allows institutional investors to trade large blocks of stock anonymously . liquidnet , which began operations in 2001 , has completed financing deal that values privately held company at $ 1.8 billion . publicly traded electronic network leader , archipelago , has market value of $ 873 million . nasdaq has value of about $ 794 million , while new_york_stock_exchange is worth about $ 1.3 billion based on price of its membership seats -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 thomas h patrick sr , who is credited with masterminding merrill_lynch 's radical cost-cutting effort of recent years , abruptly retires as merrill_lynch executive vice chairman . move further cements power of chief executive e stanley_o'neal , whom patrick helped disassemble unwieldy empire built by former chairman david_h_komansky . firm denies move is linked to abrupt resignation of senior vice president and treasurer john_c_stomber day before .
 new jersey gov jon_s_corzine , atty gen zulima_v_farber and environmental_protection_dept_comr_lisa_p_jackson meet in mahwah , nj , with tribal_council_of_ramapough_mountain_indians to discuss fatal shooting of tribe member emil_mann by new_jersey_state_park_police officer chad_walder on apr 1 . corzine addresses group of about 40 protestors outside meeting .
 democratic presidential candidates hillary_clinton , barack_obama and john_edwards are embroiled in what may be most competitive scramble for black supporters since voting rights act was passed four decades ago . presence of obama in race has excited many black voters . clinton has benefited from immense popularity of her husband among black voters . black support could be vital in contested primaries .
 article on plan by david_rockefeller to sell 94 acres of land in pocantico_hills , ny , to housing developer in order to help finance environmental education center and organic restaurant to be run by owners of blue hill restaurant in greenwich_village . original cost of project has risen from $ 10 million to nearly $ 30 million , in part because rockefeller family 's stone barns need more extensive renovation than first anticipated . developer patrick_fogarty says only 30 houses will be built on property zoned for one-acre development . some residents , including rockfeller family members , raise concerns about increased traffic and use of open land for housing . photos . history of rockefeller family holdings in hudson_valley detailed .
 mcguire_air_force base , wrightstown , nj , uses peregrine_falcons to keep nuisance birds away from airfield and planes . falcons are more effective than other methods . nuisance birds pose threat to civil and military aviation , with air_force recording 62,536 collisions between its aircraft and wildlife , mostly birds , in past 20 years . falcon environmental services is supplying falcons at kennedy_airport , nyc , too .
 palestinian split deepens as masked hamas gunmen take control of gaza_strip and 3-month-old unity government is dissolved by fatah pres mahmoud_abbas . aide to abbas declares state of emergency and firing of prime min ismail_haniya of hamas . with hamas controlling gaza , it is not clear abbas has power to carry out his decrees . hamas spokesman calls abbas 's decrees ` worthless ' and claims haniya remains head of government . even abbas 's supporters are dubious . in gaza , hamas fighters take over fatah-run preventive security compound , removing weapons , computers , office furniture and other equipment . prime min ehud olmert of israel calls on abbas to ` exercise his authority ' as leader of palestinian people . olmert is expected to say israel favors sealing off israeli-occupied west bank from infection of gaza when he meets with pres bush in washington this weekend .
 ford_motor_co ceases production at plant it has operated in edison , nj , for last 56 years . closing adds to steady erosion of manufacturing in new jersey , which has lost about 540,000 manufacturing jobs since 1969 . 355,000 manufacturing jobs still remained in state at end of 2003 . ford workers can opt to retire , transfer or be dismissed with three years ' pay .
 tim_russert , perhaps most influential journalist in washington , is in uncomfortable position of also being pivotal ear-witness to only crime so far charged in cia leak case . it was his 20 minutes of sworn testimony to special prosecutor patrick_j_fitzgerald that helped undermine account of vice pres cheney 's chief of staff i lewis_libby jr , who claimed it was russert who first told him that sharp critic of bush administration 's rationale for war with iraq was married to cia agent . indictment claims libby spoke about cia agent 's identity with at least six other people in government before talking with russert . fitzgerald is counting on credibility of russert , who has acknowledged some discomfort with his unusual role in case .
 democrats in manhattan and bronx vie for nomination to run against state sen olga_a_mendez , who switched parties to become republican in 2002 . nelson antonio_denis , john_ruiz , felix_rosado and jose_marco_serrano are in various stages of launching campaigns . democrats see victory as crucial step to gaining majority in senate . mendez says being re-elected as member of majority party will help her serve her community better .
 house appropriations subcommittee approves spending bill that would cut budget for corporation for public broadcasting to $ 300 million from $ 400 million , eliminate $ 39 million that stations say they need to convert to digital programming and $ 50 million for upgrading aging satellite technology and eliminate $ 23 million for children 's programming . cuts go significantly beyond those requested by white_house and are likely to be approved by full appropriations committee and then by house . logo .
 mass shooting at virginia_tech takes emotional toll on college town of blacksburg , va . tragedy has bound already close community , with ribbons in university 's orange and maroon colors affixed to lampposts , trees , restaurants and offices . town and university are co-producing annual arts festival in june that this year may take on hues of healing . at small yarn shop , residents gather to knit squares that will be sewn into 32 patchwork blankets in memory of virginia tech victims .
 multimillionaire lobbyist ben_barnes , who was speaker of texas_house at age 26 , lieutenant governor at 30 , presidential prospect at 32 and washed up at 34 , has at age 68 written memoir barn burning , barn building , with lisa_dickey . hopes to revive democratic fortunes in texas . argues for coalition-building , conciliation and accomodations with business .
 pressure from rest of europe prompts spain to spend heavily on boats and equipment in effort to close southern coast to illegal immigration and drug smuggling from morocco . european union says one quarter of its illegal immigrants come through spain every year . spain estimates 1 million of its 2.7 million foreigners are illegal . security concerns override european needs for labor . europeans grapple with moral difficulties involved in establishing holding camps and forced repatriation .
 hurricane isabel weakens and now has sustained winds of 110 miles per hour . takes new track that will skirt virginia 's densely populated chesapeake_bay region . is expected to unleash brunt of its fury on coastal areas and barrier islands of north_carolina , where 100,000 people are urged to evacuate , and cause flooding from central virginia to pennsylvania once it heads inland .
 pres bush says he will seek 73 percent increase in securities_and_exchange_commission budget for next year from last year 's $ 487 million to help sec fight corporate fraud , radio speech . says he will also seek spending increases for justice_department to expand corporate fraud probes and to help labor department recover pension-fund assets for employees of defrauded companies . democrats complain bush has been slow to face need for more funding to fight corporate wrongdoing .
 sen john_kerry , pressed on whether he threw away his vietnam war medals in protest in 1971 , challenges attacks on his military record from republicans who did not fight in vietnam and questions whether pres bush skipped national guard duty during war . vice pres cheney , in speech at westminster_college in fulton , mo , reads quotations from kerry intended to portray senator as equivocating on major issues of national security . white_house is planning to anchor bush 's re-election campaign to war on terrorism by undercutting kerry 's foreign policy credentials , including his decorated service in vietnam . democrats hope kerry 's resume will help neutralize bush 's presumed advantage on these issues . cheney 's attack on kerry is so sharp that westminster coll president fletcher m lamkin sends notice to students and faculty chastising cheney for ` kerry-bashing ' and promising to invite kerry to address school .
 former new_york_city police comr bernard_b_kerik pleads guilty to accepting gift in form of renovations on his bronx apartment in 1999 and 2000 worth $ 165,000 . plea is made to justice_john_p_collins in new_york_state_supreme_court . renovations were done by interstate_industrial_corp , company accused of having ties to organized crime . kerik will pay fines of $ 221,000 . is also accused of accepting $ 28,000 loan from real estate developer nathan_berman .
 fact that no team from former east germany will remain in first division in german soccer league seen reinforcing conclusion of well-publicized report last year that reunification has been economic failure , despite $ 110 billion a year that germany invests in east . population in former eastern_states is diminishing as people , especially the young , leave for brighter prospects elsewhere . few companies are setting up headquarters and in some areas , unemployment is 25 percent .
 federal bureau of investigation says rate of serious crime in united_states fell by mere 1.1 percent in 2002 after enormous drop in crime in 1990 's . reports total number of murders rose 1 percent from 2001 . experts express surprise that crime rate did not rise in face of number of factors that might have led to upturn . crime rate table .
 cushman_&_wakefield , national_real_estate services company based in new_york , expects significant growth in next few years . international operations , which provide less than third of company 's revenues , are expected to produce half within three years . bruce_e_mosler , president of us operations , is named to succeed arthur_f_mirante ii as president and chief executive of whole company . mosler and mirante comments .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column urges bush administration not to double reward for capture of osama bin laden from $ 25 million to $ 50 million . contends that us should lower reward for bin laden to one penny . asserts that megarewards for bin laden and abu_musab_al-zarqawi , chief terrorist in iraq , are just enhancing their status as muslim warriors standing up to us .
 front row column notes that over 30,000 former employees of abercrombie_&_fitch received gift cards from store worth $ 75 to $ 175 as payout of class-action settlement over claims that company required them to buy and wear its clothes . also notes that fashion photographer michael_thompson 's first published collection of photography , called michael_thompson : images , will be out in april from harry n abrams .
 gov george_pataki and four st_regis_mohawk_chiefs sign agreement to settle tribe 's land claims and lay groundwork for new indian-run casino in catskills , on site of kutsher_'s_country_club . photo with chief alma ransom . tribe claims new_york stole 15,000 acres more than 200 years ago with congressional approval . deal will need approval of interior secretary , court and congress .
 caryn_james_critic 's notebook column on atom egoyan 's anti-nostalgic film , where the truth lies , based on rupert_holmes 's 2003 novel , which portrays fictionalized world of show-business duo obviously modeled after dean_martin and jerry_lewis . notes film , starring colin_firth and kevin_bacon , presents far different accounting than one in lewis 's memoir , dean and me -lrb- a love story -rrb- , slated to be published next week .
 tom ford , design star considered irreplaceable by many in fashion industry , will be succeeded by four unknown designers at gucci and yves saint laurent . decision by pinault-printemps-redoute to divide responsibilities for labels among three former assistants at gucci and fourth at sain laurent is significant change for company identified with personality of one designer . gucci becomes first luxury brand to break away from star system it helped to foster , suggesting rest of $ 60 billion luxury industry may be on verge of critical reappraisal . appointees are alessandra_facchinetti , john_ray , frida_giannini and stefano_pilati . pinault-printemps-redoute chairman serge_weinberg comments .
 palestinian policeman detonates bomb packed with shrapnel aboard jerusalem bus , killing himself and 10 other people and wounding at least 45 others . al aksa_martyrs brigade claims responsibility . it is unclear whether deadliest attack in months is in any way linked to planned exchange of prisoners between israel and lebanese_guerrilla_group_hezbollah . but within four hours of explosion , israeli officials go ahead with release of 400 palestinian and 29 lebanese and other prisoners . prime min ariel_sharon , at ceremony to receive remains of three israeli soldiers , defends decision to go ahead with exchange .
 about 400 students , teachers and workers emerge from two weeks ' quarantine at university in beijing , but there are 94 more confirmed cases of sars in capital . one communist party leader says more than 120 officials around country have been fired or disciplined for ` lack of vigor ' in containing virus or for concealing local cases . greatest fear of chinese and international health officials now is that sars may start spreading fast in china 's vast , medically underequipped interior provinces .
 aviation officials are worried about looming traffic jam in skies over new_york_city . they are studying ways that other airports , some over 60 miles from midtown_manhattan , could help relieve congestion . port authority of new_york and new jersey executives are considering range of incremental improvements that would allow them to squeeze more planes and passengers through la_guardia , kennedy_international and newark liberty international airports . port authority chmn anthony r coscia says time has come to start creating another major airport to serve metropolitan area .
 gov george_e_pataki of new_york , gov jon s corzine of new jersey and new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg put together financial plan to rebuild at ground zero and have port authority of new_york and new jersey take control of freedom tower . port authority executives kenneth_j_ringler and anthony r coscia meet with developer larry_a_silverstein to formally present plan . silverstein must choose whether to accept plan .
 article on senior thesis written by princeton student katherine_milkman which used mathematical models to analyze fiction printed in new yorker magazine . thesis , based on 442 short stories printed from october 5_, 1992 , to september 17_, 2001 , concluded that male editors generally publish male authors who write about male characters who are supported by female characters . main inquiry was how change from charles_mcgrath to bill_buford as head of fiction department affected stories published in magazine .
 members of saiva_siddhanta_church are erecting hindu_temple in wailua , kauai , hawaii . temple , san_marga_iraivan_temple , is cut from 1,600 tons of stone that is being carved in india and shipped to site for assembly . work was started in 1990 and is expected to be completed in 2010 at cost of $ 16 million .
 shiite clerics in iraq seem to share much of bush administration 's vision of country 's future . are appalled by excesses of iranian revolution and desire to reach condominium in iraq with minority sunnis , kurds and turkmen . deputy defense sec paul d wolfowitz warns against anti-shiite bigotry . ayatollah muhammad_bakr_al-hakim and grand ayatollah_ali_sistani have become voices of moderation , urging swift democratic transition as way to end american_dominion .
 kirk_kerkorian , general_motors ' largest shareholder , is pressing company to speed up its turnaround effort by forming alliance with nissan and renault , which would pay $ 3 billion for 20 percent stake in gm . alliance would offer kerkorian opportunity to enlist help of carlos_ghosn , hard-charging executive who oversees nissan and renault .
 interview with paris-based swiss artist thomas_hirschhorn , who comments on government reaction to his new show , swiss-swiss democracy , which uses swiss cultural center in paris to ridicule democracy in switzerland and attack ultranationalist politician christoph_blocher . swiss parliament has slashed $ 1.1 million from $ 38.9 million annual budget for pro_helvetia , government-financed cultural foundation that owns swiss cultural center .
 new congressional report finds united_states maintained its dominance in international arms market last year , especially in sales to developing nations . total worldwide sales for us in 2002 was $ 13.3 billion , or 45.5 percent of global conventional weapons deals . russia is second in sales to developing world , with $ 5 billion , followed by france with $ 1 billion .
 kevin_keating documentary giuliani time is full frontal assault on civic deification of former new_york_city mayor rudolphgiuliani that occurred in days after sep_11_, 2001 , terrorist attacks . film is scheduled to have its premiere in new_york_city on may 12 . whether or not film finds commercial success , it is sure to provoke closer look at giuliani if he decides to seek republican presidential nomination for 2008 .
 john rockwell article says that in visiting four major american dance companies , san_francisco ballet , boston ballet , pennsylvania ballet and joffrey ballet of chicago , he found that strongest works are revivals rather than new pieces . maintains that old standards by likes of george_balanchine , frederick_ashton , twyla_tharp and peter_martins are more compelling than those of current choreographers .
 houston police crime laboratory 's reliability comes under new scrutiny that could involve many thousands of cases over 25 years . six independent forensic scientists say in their report that innocent man was convicted of rape in 1987 partly because crime lab official james_bolding either lacked basic knowledge of blood typing or gave false testimony . say new dna testing has cleared george_rodriguez , who has served 17 years for raping young girl . barry_scheck , one of rodriguez 's lawyers , says harris county is worst place in america for crime laboratory scandal . rodriguez case reviewed .
 jennifer_medina column on political impact war in iraq and fifth anniversary of attacks of september 11 are having on politicians and voters in connecticut . notes war was major reason ned_lamont defeated sen joseph_lieberman in democratic primary and is shaping race in fourth congressional district between republican christopher_shays and democatic challenger diane_farrell .
 lt gen ricardo_sanchez , us commander in iraq , acknowledges that ` we 're still at war'_two_months after pres bush declared end of major combat . us offers $ 25-million reward for capture of saddam_hussein or confirmation of death . us soldier is killed by sniper in baghdad . 19 others are wounded in two other attacks , one in ramadi . administrator paul_bremer says hussein and sons must be found because their names cast fear over country . says general view is that hussein is still in iraq . also acknowledges increasing sophistication of attacks . three soldiers are also wounded in grenade attack in baghdad , after which chanting crowd loots humvee and sets it afire .
 anthony_pellicano , onetime private detective to stars who is finishing 30-month sentence on federal firearms charges , expects to be indicted again in weeks . fbi accuses pellicano of engaging in widespread illegal wiretapping on behalf of lawyers and their clients , with help of rogue law enforcement officer and telephone company worker . hollywood film industry is bracing for possibility that damage will not end with disgraced pellicano . among people called before grand jury or questioned by federal agents are kevin_huvane and brian_lourd , top partners at creative artists agency , michael_s_ovitz , onetime president of walt_disney_co who headed creative artists , ron_meyer , president of universal studios and former partner at creative artists , brad_grey , chairman of paramount pictures and entertainment lawyer bert fields . case against pellicano originated in june 2002 when reporter anita_busch was threatened while she was pursuing article for los_angeles_times about actor steven_seagal and his relationship with mob figure .
 abortion rights advocates are preparing for april 25 march in washington , dc , first such national gathering in 12 years . veterans of movement say they have been striving to address decline in support among women under age 30 . young first-generation americans and recent immigrants , many of whom maintain connections to countries where reproductive rights are part of still-burgeoning struggle over women 's issues , are bringing new energy and broader perspectives to cause .
 opposition socialists sweep to upset victory in general elections in spain , ousting center-right party of prime min jose_maria_aznar in wake of terrorist bombings in madrid and amid growing evidence of muslim fundamentalist role in attacks . some voters apparently believe attacks were plotted by al_qaeda because of aznar 's support for war in iraq , which spaniards overwhelmingly oppose . accusations mount that aznar 's party may have tried to suppress evidence of qaeda involvement by holding basque separatists responsible . investigators have arrested five men , one with links to al_qaeda , who authorities say were under surveillance before attacks . also say other militant muslims both in and out of spain may have been involved in plot . socialist victory is seen as repudiation of aznar 's close bonds with pres bush and throws into question continued presence of spanish troops in iraq . jose luis_rodriguez_zapatero will become new prime minister .
 express scripts survey finds growth in spending on prescription drugs slowed to 11.3 percent in first_quarter_of 2003 from 16.9 percent in 2002 period . reports drug prices rose 7.5 percent from 2001 to 2002 . express scripts manages drug plans for 50 million americans . each of its members accounted for spending of $ 585.60 , on average , in 2002 .
 wall that separates brooklyn_navy yard from rest of borough still stands , 38 years after navy closed yard . it blocks mile or more of waterfront coveted by developers , but wall was selling point when brooklyn_navy yard development_corp started filling buildings with small manufacturers . city councilman david_yassky says moving unwanted things behind wall can seem easy escape from political fights .
 man in the news profile of judge_john_glover_roberts , pres bush 's nominee to supreme court . roberts , 50 , graduated from harvard_college in three years and went on to harvard_law_school and clerkship with then-associate justice_william_rehnquist . he developed lucrative practice at washington law firm hogan_&_hartson_after_senate democratic leadership balked at first pres bush 's plan to put him on appeals court . he is described as cordial , wry and extremely smart but not inclined to take himself too seriously . he and wife jane_marie_sullivan , lawyer as well , live with two young children in chevy_chase and are described as devout catholics . roberts , who has been active in conservative federalist society , was born in buffalo and grew up in indiana , son of bethlehem steel executive .
 world travel and tourism council report shows tourism industry in china is set for rapid growth in coming years . predicts number of tourists and business travelers visiting china will grow 22 percent per year beginning in 2004 through 2013 , and flow of chinese tourists and travelers growing abroad will probably grow even faster . council representatives and travel industry executives warn that china must overhaul its tourism administration and accept more foreign involvement if it is to manage expansion .
 cable television shows , with 16 , for first time in any emmy telecast receive more awards than those on broadcast networks , which garnered 12 . hbo , with most nominations , wins 8 awards . fox network , whose emmy broadcast had total of 17.7 million viewers compared with 20 million last year , wins no awards . abc wins only one award . cbs wins 7 awards , one fewer than hbo .
 mexico holds its first national elections since its transition to multiparty rule three years ago . results are expected to be sobering setback to pres vicente fox by denying his party control over lower house of congress . more than half of voters do not cast ballots , in unprecedented display of apathy . surveys indicate that fox 's party will lose between 44 to 54 of 202 seats it currently holds in congress . many voters say fox is good man , but that he has not improved economy as he promised to do during his campaign .
 boeing co is running more than year behind schedule and billions of dollars over cost on highly classified program to build next generation of reconnaissance satellites , forcing government to shift estimated $ 4 billion from other spy pograms . boeing project was initially set at about $ 6 billion , but national_reconnaissance_office had to add substantially to figure to address what auditors have described as large problems with program . reconnaissance office has had to scale back its expectations for satellites ' initial performance to well below what boeing had promised .
 michael_d_eisner 's plan to leave as walt_disney_co chief executive when his contract expires in two years may not be enough to salvage company 's testy ties with harvey_weinstein of miramax and steven p jobs of pixar animation studios . pixar has been responsible for big part of disney 's film profits , but jobs has heatedly scored eisner and disney . disney has been negotiating accord in which dimension films head bob_weinstein would stay at disney while his brother , harvey , would produce movies on his own to be distributed by disney .
 profile of and interview with charles_phoenix of los_angeles who , over last_decade , has amassed and archived over one million slides of family get-togethers from 1940 's through 1970 's of complete strangers . phoenix assembles traveling ` retro slide shows ' accompanied by tongue-in-cheek commentary . latest multimedia piece , god bless americana : the retro holiday slide show , is set to open in east_village .
 campaign to kill saddam_hussein , frankly discussed by high officials at white_house , defense_department and cia , commits us for first time to public , personalized , open-ended warfare in classic mode of middle_eastern violence . officials argue that hussein 's survival encourages resistance in iraq so that killing him is legitimate act of war , but us has never before openly marked foreign leaders for killing . earlier covert actions recalled .
 program to build high-speed rail corridor between albany and new_york_city , hailed in 1998 by gov george_pataki as landmark partnership between amtrak and state_transportation_department , is caught in downward spiral of cost overruns , poor planning , amtrak 's financial problems and plain back luck . animosity between state and amtrak over performance and equipment delivery has resulted in accusations and lawsuit , all to detriment of riders .
 pres bush creates bipartisan commission to investigate quality of intelligence used to justify iraq war and to address problems posed by weapons proliferation . gives panel until march 2005 to submit its conclusions . selects former sen charles_s_robb and judge_laurence_h_silberman as chairmen of commission . other members are lloyd_n_cutler , sen john_mccain , retired adm_william_o_studeman , yale_university pres richard_c_levin and former appeals court judge_patricia_m_wald . bush says two other members will be named later . bush photo .
 marty_siegel of old bridge , nj , has visited 7-eleven convenience stores in 23 states and 3 canadian provinces . says his hobby of traveling just to visit 7-eleven stores started in brooklyn in 1985 and that he has grown more passionate about it over years . siegel can talk knowledgeably about chain 's history , architecture , food and memorabilia . is one of five members and moderator of web site shared by convenience store enthusiasts .
 national_transportation_safety_board is poised to conclude that actions by pilot were main cause of nov 2001 crash of american_airlines jetliner in queens that killed 265 people . conclusion would partly vindicate manufacturer airbus , which has questioned training pilot received , but american is campaigning to include clause that would put onus on airbus to be more forthcoming about earlier problems with tail control . safety board will meet on oct 26 to approve final report .
 many states are turning to private managers of public buildings . virginia has hired cb_richard_ellis_consulting , unit of cb_richard_ellis , to review its property management practices and advise it on making them more efficient . ernst_&_young has teamed up with real estate company jones lang lasalle to bid for illinois_real_estate assets contract . michigan has brought in staubach co to help it get into more cutting-edge management of its real estate portfolio . also hopes to sell about $ 100 million worth of property .
 kaori icho -lrb- japan -rrb- wins women 's 63 kg freestyle wrestling event . sara_mcmann -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and lise_legrand -lrb- france -rrb- wins bronze . irini merleni -lrb- ukraine -rrb- wins women 's 48 kg match . chiharu icho -lrb- japan -rrb- wins silver and patricia_miranda -lrb- us -rrb- wins bronze .
 smithtown town board , after dozen years of indecision , votes 3 to 2 to solicit bids to tear down old nesconset armory . assemblyman michael_fitzpatrick and state sen john_flanagan want armory , which was sold by new_york_state_national_guard with stipulation that it would be used for park and recreational purposes , to be converted into recreation center . board wants to give site to smithtown library for new facility .
 110 livingston street in downtown brooklyn , headquarters of new_york_city 's board of education since 1939 and symbol of dysfunctional bureaucracy , is sold for more than $ 45 million for conversion into high-end condominiums and theater . mayor michael_bloomberg slaps ` sold ' sign on front door . photos . developer david_c_walentas say he will keep famous , or infamous , address because people have short memories in ever-changing city . mckim , mead_&_white designed building in 1926 for order of elks .
 edward_rothstein connections column on connections between cranbrook_house in bloomfield_hills and henry_ford 's highland park automobile factory in detroit , mich . notes that house , elizabethan-style manor built in 1907-8 for newspaper magnate george_gough booth and his wife , ellen_warren_scripps , and factory , known as crystal_palace , were both designed by architect albert_kahn . holds that while cranbrook_house was utopian vision of arts and crafts movement while factory embraced ford 's utopian vision of industrial revolution , both booth and ford were devoted to craft and nostalgia .
 wedding of prince charles and camilla_parker_bowles is served up by american television with snickering affection rather than awe reserved for other pageants of british royalty . wedding was postponed one day to avoid conflicting with funeral of john_paul_ii , and news anchors wriggled and giggled in relief as cameras moved from vatican to windsor castle . before ceremony , msnbc rebroadcast 1981 wedding of charles and lady diana_spencer . wedding gave viewers chance to relive every royal scandal .
 assemblyman roger l green pleads guilty to filing false travel expenses in deal that allows him to keep his seat in new_york state legislature at least until november elections . traveled free in cars supplied by correctional_services_corp , company who lobbied for state contracts . will serve three years ' probation , make restitution of $ 3,000 and pay fine of $ 2,000 for petty larceny conviction .
 james w walter is paying for $ 3 million television and print ads claiming that plane did not crash into pentagon on sept_11_, 2001 , and that 7 world trade center was detonated from within . walter , millionaire some describe as eccentric , says government officials were looking for way to get us into afghanistan and iraq wars . experts dismiss his accusations .
 special prosecutor patrick_j_fitzgerald begins presenting evidence to grand jury about improper disclosure of undercover cia officer valerie_plame 's identity and has informed several people who have been employed at white_house that they could be summoned to testify . bush administration has sought to control damage over accusations that unidentified officials leaked plame 's name because her husband , former amb_joseph_c_wilson_iv , publicly criticized pres bush 's policies on iraq . fitzgerald photo -lrb- m -rrb- .
 sherman kent , in three decades as intelligence analyst , including 17 years at cia , set standards that guide profession to this day . kent 's legacy looms large in scathing senate assessment of intelligence failures leading up to war against iraq . senate select committe on intelligence singled out kent as professional paragon and held that intelligence analysts had violated his admonitions in recent years . kent photo .
 hollinger_international unit reportedly made bonus payments totaling $ 3 million in dec 2000 to chairman conrad m black and two other top executives , wiring money to caribbean unit of canadian_bank . complex transaction sheds light on at least one way hollinger paid black , through transfer that also could have cut taxes on his compensation . move , spurred by profitable unit spinoffs , was apparently legal , but unusual way to compensate executives of united states-based public company . black spokesman says bonuses were approved . daniel_colson and f david_radler also got bonuses .
 mother marianne cope 's remains are exhumed from grave at kalaupapa , hawaii , in preparation for beatification , first major step before sainthood . mother marianne , franciscan missionary , died in 1918 after serving nearly 30 years in leper colony where thousands of hawaiians were banished for life . will be first nun from her order in syracuse , ny , to become saint . decision by syracuse franciscans to return remains to new_york as part of canonization process has created enormous sense of loss and raised unsettling questions about future of haunting but beautiful peninsula after final 25 residents with leprosy die or move away . origins of settlement , which began as leper colony in 1866 , discussed .
 article on battle between suffolk_county democratic party chairman richard_schaffer and nassau_county executive thomas_suozzi_over_schaffer 's urging his chief aide , bill_cunningham , to run for suffolk_county executive . cunningham , who has stepped down as nassau 's chief deputy county executive , will face assemblyman steve_levy in primary .
 robert_levine article on music_group_louvin_brothers that started recording in 1960 's . louvin brothers tribute album recently won two grammys and all 18 of their original albums are back in print , for first time since 60 's . charlie_louvin , 76 , comments on his career with his late brother ira .
 helen_harrison reviews traveling exhibit from collections of saint-gaudens national historic site in cornish , nh , at parrish_art_museum , group exhibition paying tribute to late sculptor robert_white at gallery north in setauket and inaugural show of works by 32 artists at st_catherine 's gallery , siena spirituality center in water mill , ny . photos .
 new york times neediest cases fund begins its 93rd annual fund-raising campaign . fund offers money and other support to working poor who have had to deal with additional problems caused by poor health , domestic relations and disasters . among beneficiaries are struggling manhattan couple caring or ailing son , brooklyn woman taking on custody of her teenage brother and single mother in yonkers trying to rebuild her life and provide shelter for her six children after fire destroys their home . starr_foundation donates $ 1 million to neediest cases fund for fifth consecutive year .
 article on gauguin-tahiti : studio in the tropics , new exhibition at grand palais in paris which includes paintings , sculptures , graphic arts , photographs and books about tahiti . exhibit 's centerpiece is paul_gauguin 's 1897 tahitian masterpiece , where do we come from . what are we . where are we going . , which has returned to france for first time since 1949 .
 new exhibit in berlin devoted to suffering of 12 million germans expelled from poland and elsewhere at end of world war ii touches raw nerve with poles . polish prime min jaroslaw kaczynski marks exhibit 's opening by visiting site of nazi_concentration_camp in poland . there are few genuine conflicts between poland and germany today other than about how to treat their painful shared past .
 congress and florida legislature fail to pass measures to remove feeding tube of comatose florida woman , terri_schiavo , despite last-ditch efforts by republicans . speaker dennis_hastert , majority leader tom delay and repr thomas m davis_iii_issue_statement_saying_house_committee will issue subpoena to try to stop judge greoge w greer 's order from being carried out . democratic sen ron_wyden warns against congress playing ` medical czar ' because there are thousands of such cases .
 japan 's decision to back new united_nations resolution on iraq sought by united_state follows weeks of fence-sitting , marked by almost no public debate . coincides with first large antiwar protest , tokyo . ex-min makiko_tanaka 's criticism of government 's failure to discuss stand publicly and her call for japan to urge us patience gets no press coverage and stirs no reaction .
 article describes scene at joe 's artistic barber shop in corona , queens , where louis_armstrong used to get his hair cut . proprietor joe_gibson and customers comment . armstrong 's home in corona , now historic site owned by new_york_city_department_of_cultural_affairs and run by queens_college , will open as museum on october 15 .
 faculty of university_of_massachusetts fears that gov mitt_romney 's campaign to oust its president , william_m_bulger , has made university 's difficult financial position even worse . amherst campus 's budget has been cut 29 percent by state legislature , and university has raised its annual fees by proposed $ 2,500 , to $ 13,730 , for students from state . bulger is good at raising private money for university , but faculty salaries are set by state . romney has little direct power to remove bulger , but plans to name new trustees until he has enough allies to remove him .
 arts briefing column . some experts believe suitcase , bought in australian flea market for $ 36 , contains valuable long-lost archive of beatles memorabilia , including unreleased recordings , once owned by group 's roadie and sound recordist mal_evans . evans was killed by police in los_angeles in 1976 after brandishing what turned out to be fake gun . 50th anniversary of death of mexican artist frida_kahlo is being observed in mexico with five exhibitions , at least four new books , several conferences and movie screenings .
 auto executives at frankfurt international motor show are looking concentrating on china , where sales of cars and trucks are growing at annual rate of more than 50 percent . general_motors chairman rick_wagoner says growth in china is amazing . daimlerchrysler chief executive jurgen_e_schrempp predicts china will be world 's second-largest car market , after us , with 8 percent of global sales .
 floyd norris column on j sainsbury 's decision not to issue $ 4.4 million in shares it awarded to sir peter_davis , former chief executive , after shareholders and news media protest that sainsbury stock is down 39 percent from its 2001 peak . says outrage reflects fear that huge american pay packages for chief executives might be emulated in europe .
 article on jamaican-born writer heru_ptah , 23 . he was selling copies of his first novel , a hip-hop story , on the a train in brooklyn when mtv books publishing director jacob_hoye bought copy and convinced mtv to buy it . published by mtv in partnership with pocket books , book is now in second printing , with about 25,000 copies in circulation and third printing planned .
 former us sen robert_torricelli is emerging once again as major fund-raiser for democratic candidates in new jersey and nationally , and as donor from his own $ 2.3 million campaign fund . efforts for sen john_kerry 's presidential campaign put him at odds with gov james_mcgreevey , who has endorsed howard_dean .
 thousands of yale undergraduates set to arrive on campus will be greeted with ninth labor walkout at university in 35 years . open-ended strike by janitorial , dining hall and clerical workers is timed to maximize pressure on yale officials , who insist that walkout is misguided because , they say , university has made unusually generous contract offer .
 court papers reveal that phillip_m_adams , former ibm engineer , sold hewlett-packard a software patch to remedy alleged flaw in floppy disk controllers of its computers and agreed to assist company in its defense against class-action lawsuits related to flaw . adams was principal expert witness for plaintiffs ' lawyers in class-action lawsuit related to same problem in computers made by toshiba , which ended with $ 2.1 billion settlement in 1999 . adams 's switching of sides prompts california state attorney general 's office to accuse him and hewlett-packard of lack of candor and deception and is pursuing false-claims investigation against company . class-action lawyers in texas feel jilted by adams , and they are suing hewlett-packard . adams , who received $ 27.5 million from hewlett-packard , contends he is acting in public interest by trying to fix problem that could have dire consequences .
 domestic pressure on indian government to respond to muslim terrorist attacks in kashmir increases with massacre of 24 hindus and reports of militants massing in pakistan . min yaswant sinha observes that india has ` better case ' for pre-emptive strike than us had against iraq , drawing quick us response emphasizing differences . india also lacks military superiority . pres bush and prime min tony_blair , meeting on iraq , approve joint statement urging cease-fire and calling on pakistan to discourage militancy .
 us supreme court agrees to hear case , dismissed by special three-judge federal_district_court in harrisburg , on whether pennsylvania democrats were victims of unconstitutional partisan gerrymandering at hands of republican-controlled legislature in congressional redistricting after 2000 census . pennsylvania , where registered democrats outnumber republicans by 3.7 million to 3.2 million , lost two house seats as result of census .
 article on increase in black bear sightings , which rose to more than 1,500 in 110 connecticut towns in last year . state_department_of_environmental_protection_research assistant henri_woods estimates there are between 300 and 500 bears in state . says return of large animals is generally positive indicator of healthier ecosystem .
 justice dept starts criminal investigation of fannie_mae in response to report by office of federal_housing_enterprise oversight accusing executives at company of sloppy accounting practices . ofheo reports that fannie_mae is adequately capitalized as of june 30 , but must still raise about $ 4.4 billion in fresh funds within next nine months to comply with new agreement with regulators .
 roosevelt_island tramway will undergo $ 15-million overhaul in 2008 . 30-year old tram has been grounded since april and repairs are expected to take 10 to 12 more weeks to finish . $ 1.5 million is authorized for planning and design work to be performed by parametrix consulting co . some question need for tram because island now has subway service .
 leeds neighbors of four suspects in london terrorist bombings express shock , but also observe that one of young men had fallen out with his mother , second grew religious after going away to college , two grew thick beads in recent months , and all had become more distant from friends . leeds prides itself on ethnic diversity , having attracted large numbers of pakistani and bangladesh immigrants from 1960 's .
 equatorial guinea pres teodoro_obiang_nguema_mbasogo quashed coup attempt in march , fifth attempt against dictator since 1996 . it featured dysfunctional ruling family , rap-music producing heir apparent teodoro nguemo_obiang , and opposition leader severo_moto , who lives in exile in spain and claims pres obiang is cannibal . also involved lebanese front company , unidentified british financier and some 80 mercenaries from south_africa , germany , armenia and kazakhstan . they are being held in prisons in zimbabwe and equatorial_guinea . simon_mann , british expatriate and soldier of fortune , and nick_du_toit , south african special forces veteran , led mercenaries .
 viacom_inc takes $ 18 billion write-down for its radio station and outdoor advertising businesses , which led fourth-quarter loss of $ 18.44 billion compared to loss of $ 385.4 million in period year earlier . sales rose 6 percent , to $ 6.3 billion . several analysts note loss was among largest taken by american corporations . chief executive sumner m redstone says writedown reflects emerging business trends and that company has always been ` very price conscious ' and could not be accused of overpaying for acquisitions .
 about 34 percent of small businesses close within two years of opening , and 50 percent fold after four years . among them are mark_mitchell 's advertising agency , magda_halgash 's antiques shop , lucinda_duncalfe_holt 's computer consulting company and michelle_dow 's wholesale book distribution business . they share some of realities of business that they learned the hard way .
 movie chicago wins golden globe for best comedy or musical . the hours wins best dramatic film award . jack_nicholson is named best actor in drama for about schmidt while nicole_kidman -lrb- the hours -rrb- gets best dramatic actress award . richard_gere and renee_zellweger -lrb- chicago -rrb- win best actor and actress awards for comedy or musical . martin scorsese wins best director award for gangs of new_york . other major awards listed .
 republican presidential candidates gathering for their first debate face vexing question of whether to support or criticize pres bush . sen john_mccain , without naming bush , is attacking performance of bush administration domestically and abroad . this separates him from his two main rivals , rudolph_w_giuliani and mitt_romney , who have avoided breaking with bush . mccain 's advisers have chosen risky strategy of emphasizing mccain 's differences with bush , partly because of difficulty of electing someone to third term from same party . advisers to both romney and mccain say it is foolhardy to attack president who remains so popular among republican primary voters . problem for all republican candidates is that just 32 percent of recent new_york_times_/_cbs_news poll respondents say they approve of bush 's job performance .
 lord andrew_lloyd_weber is mounting $ 35 million production of the phantom of the opera in new $ 30 million theater at venetian hotel and casino in las_vegas . it may be most expensive theatrical production of all time . show has been trimmed to 90 minutes , allowing ten performances per week , as opposed to usual eight on broadway .
 article on bumpy financial ride that netjets , private jet fractional ownership company that warren_buffett 's berkshire hathaway bought from richard_santulli in 1998 , has endured . says company lost $ 80 million last year after making $ 10 million profit in 2004 despite boom in demand for part-time jets . chairman and chief executive santulli comments on problems but is optimistic about future . some analysts and shareholders voice concerns about netjet 's ability to turn itself around .
 academic paper on nba reports that from 1991 season through 2004 , white referees called fouls at greater rate against black players than against whites . justin_wolfers of wharton and cornell graduate student joseph price find corresponding bias in which black officials call fouls more often against whites . say probability of particular team winning is ` noticeably affected ' by disparity . nba commissioner david_stern says study using nba 's own database , identifying those who called fouls , shows no bias . photos . three independent experts asked by the new_york_times to examine data consider wolfers-price argument more sound , although paper has yet to undergo peer review before publication . ian_ayres , david_berri and larry_katz comment . segal company conducted nba study .
 israel and egypt step up high-level contacts despite strains of recent years as they try to carve out role for egyptian security forces to assist israel in proposed pullout from gaza . prime min hosni_mubarak talks with min silvan_shalom on plan to increase egyptian security on border and send egyptian police into gaza to train palestinian officers .
 nine letters comment on sept 25 , 26 and 27 series examining new_york state 's town and village courts . herbert_rosenberg , prof doris_marie_provine , don_bruhnke , ray_kelly , president of new_york_state_assn of criminal defense lawyers , sophia_sedlis , joseph_tobin , adam_bourgeois and william l clovis criticize these courts and call for reform . david m fine says series was one-sided .
 national_park_service proposes allowing as many as 720 snowmobiles a day for next three years in yellowstone_national_park , as litigation continues over permanent limits . proposal seeks to stake out middle ground between conflicting rulings of two federal courts , one calling for phasing out snowmobiles in yellowstone over three years and other allowing as many as 950 a day .
 british commission reviewing intelligence used by prime min tony_blair in making case for war in iraq reaffirms assertion that saddam_hussein sought uranium from africa . senate intelligence committee report says french official told state_dept in late 2002 that france believed hussein had sought uranium from niger . new reports raise questions about one of bush administration chief critics on issue . points out that wilson 's official report on visit to niger_confirmed_iraq 's interest in buying uranium . bush administration is quietly pleased about reports .
 viacom announces that new cbs_corp will acquire cstv_networks , cable channel and confederation of web sites that focus on college sports . purchase will be made with $ 325 million in stock to be issued next year by cbs , which will be created after its split from viacom . cstv chief executive brian_t_bedol and cbs chairman leslie_moonves comment .
 daniel_gross column , in light of announcement by warren_buffett that he would donate most of his $ 44 billion fortune to bill and melinda_gates foundation , on philanthropic efforts by wealthy americans of past . describes differences between foundations set up in 20th_century by john_d_rockefeller and andrew_carnegie and gates foundation .
 south_korea , ignoring bush administration efforts to isolate north_korea , has become its largest source of aid , trade and tourism . it is also north_korea 's most consistent diplomatic advocate . conciliatory stance causes uneasiness and confusion in washington , where white_house tries to keep united front with south_korea and japan to induce north_korea to drop its nuclear weapons program . south_korea 's plans do not include unification , at least not anytime soon . it wants to nudge north_korea down road toward free market and economic development .
 op-ed article by frederick_barthelme describes scene in hattiesburg , miss , in aftermath of hurricane katrina . says city , 70 miles inland from gulf_of mexico , has never before been so damaged by hurricane . says there is no power or water , and waiting for gas can take six hours , if any is left . says , however , that post-hurricane situation in hattiesburg is far opposite of new_orleans . says ridiculous conditions are bringing out the best , not the worst , in the natives . says at least this is case so far , but nobody knows what will happen in days and weeks ahead .
 work begins on steiner studios at brooklyn_navy yard , which will include five new sound stages , including largest in northeast . steiner_equities_group is spending $ 180 million on project that also includes office complex , production facilities , backlots and related ammenities . believes studio will attract high-end productions of $ 35 million or more and increase new_york_city 's share of movie industry . photo . rendering .
 ecologists see land boom sweeping baja_california -lrb- mexico -rrb- peninsula as greater threat to gray whale nursery than developers of salt and oil deposit , battled by environmentalists in recent years . environmental groups have reached agreement with ejido_luis_echeverria cooperative to protect 120,000 acres around laguna_san_ignacio from development in exchange for $ 675,000 trust fund , but echeverria cooperative is only one of six around lagoon .
 former worldcom chief financial officer scott_d_sullivan , government 's star witness in its case against former worldcom chief executive bernard_j_ebbers , faces grueling cross-examination . much of case against ebbers , who is accused of conspiracy , securities fraud and filing false statements with regulators , rests on his testimony that ebbers consented to accounting maneuvers involved in $ 11 billion fraud that bankrupted company .
 critics of indiana gov mich_daniels , who previously served in bush_white_house as budget director , complain that he is bent on privatizing everything he can get his hands on . daniels stirred biggest controversy last year when he leased indiana toll road to macquarie-cintra , australian-spanish consortium . state got $ 3.8 billion in return , which daniels says will pay for scores of highway projects .
 recent strike marks first time new_york_city transit workers have gone on strike first and then voted down contract . stunned union leaders and metropolitan transit authority are unsure how to put contract back together again . dissent and political jockeying within local 100 of transport_workers_union means militant members could be prone to wildcat job action or slowdown . workers are angry at union president roger_toussaint , at mta for demanding concessions when it had $ 1 billion surplus and at gov pataki for threatening to block refunds on pension contributions .
 war in vietnam charges back into american consciousness as fighting in iraq continues and election-year questions are raised about how pres bush and sen john_kerry handled challenges of vietnam era as young men . for 51 vietnam veterans from around united_states , stationed in pleiku , that war never entirely went away . every member of unit witnesed war 's worst situations . many say they are different people today because of pleiku . they see many simularities between vietnam war and war in iraq , but many differences also .
 treasury dept estimates that tax break that was part of relief package to aid victims of hurricane katrina spurred $ 11 billion in donations to charity , more than triple what had been originally projected . incentive could cost government more than $ 3 billion in lost tax revenue , compared with $ 819 million estimated by congress when it passed bill in 2005 .
 law enforcement authorities on long_island say gang leaders are coming from southern_california and el_salvador to take over local operations of mara_salvatrucha , also known as ms-13 , street gang with central american roots that is considered to be one of most violent in us . say september 21 killing of olivia_mendoza , 16 , in old westbury and genaro_venegas , 24 , whose body was found in bethpage , may be related to new leadership 's imposition of tighter control over local gang activity .
 opec agrees to increase its production quotas by two million barrels a day , or 8.5 percent , delivering only tepid message to oil markets about its commitment to lowering prices . traders in new_york bid up futures prices , but prices drop later in day when new energy department statistics show growing supplies of oil , gasoline and other distilled fuels in us . analysts say problem with opec 's move is that it will not add any new oil to market because opec is already overproducing its declared ceiling of 23.5 million barrels a day .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column notes that girls and women can still be imprisoned for going out without proper islamic dress in iran , but young people are completely redefining such dress so it heightens sex appeal instead of smothering it . predicts that iran 's baby boomers , wave of 18 million people 15 to 25 years old , will transform their country , just as baby boomers in west_changed_america and europe .
 novell , which gradually lost its dominance of market for network server operating systems to microsoft , plans to battle microsoft in pc operating system market with its acquisition of suse linux and ibm 's planned $ 50 million investment in novell . microsoft has already felt sting of linux , which many corporations see as reasonable and less expensive alternative to windows operating system . analysts see merger helping linux win united_states customers .
 hassing soumare , 6 , dies of injuries sustained in march 7 fire in bronx . was oldest daughter of mamadou_soumare , who lost three other children and his wife in fire . he and moussa_magassa , another malian immigrant who lost five children in fire , are shuttling from hospital to funeral home and back again .
 tiger wheels factory in babelegi , south_africa , is not hiring locally , investing instead in new factory in alabama . south_africa 's failure to keep jobs at home and to stimulate new ones is turning into one of biggest disappointments of post-apartheid era . sound economic policies have not compensated for unskilled workers , high labor costs , crime , aids and fact that africa is bad business address . unemployment in south_africa has jumped to over 40 percent , from 31 percent decade ago . economists see lack of jobs as biggest threat to pact that has bound blacks and whites together in new south_africa .
 article on five-year-old american_academy in berlin , which held 118 cultural and political events this year . american academy 's 11 fellows , with help of sizable stipends , spend month to year in villa on wannsee interacting with one another , conducting research , writing , traveling , visiting exhibitions , speaking or just exploring city in name of creative process .
 north_korea suspends service on its lone passenger ferry link with japan , in response to new japanese and american policy of subjecting all north korean shipping to intensive inspections . without provoking north_korea with formal penalties or naval blockade , north_korea 's neighbors are seeking to pressure it to drop its clandestine nuclear weapons program . on two occasions in last week , south_korea 's navy has fired warning shots at north korean crab boats that ventured south of sea border claimed by south_korea . north_korea notes that new maritime policies followed two meetings pres bush had in united_states in may , with japanese prime min junichiro_koizumi and south korean pres roh moo hyun .
 duke semans mansion on new_york 's fifth avenue is up for sale with $ 50-million price tag . photos . 1901 beaux arts townhouse with 20,000 square feet , said to be last great private mansion on avenue , is being sold by duke family descendants . rock star lenny_kravitz reportedly visits twice . mary_duke_biddle_trent_semans , 85-year-old granddaughter of benjamin duke , says she hopes buyer will preserve landmarked house as close as possible to current state .
 neil a lewis and david_johnston analysis holds that sentencing trial of zacarias_moussaoui was supposed to have been government 's best opportunity to hold someone accountable for deaths on sept 11 , 2001 . contends that after federal prosecutors finished laying out their case , even those who supported aggressive prosecution may wonder whether trial has shed as much light on moussaoui 's culpability as it has on missteps by law enforcement agencies . maintains that testimony by fbi agent harry_samit and michael_rolince , retired fbi counterterrorism supervisor , has brought renewed and unwelcome attention to how agency dealt with early warning signs .
 pres bush wins praise from frequent critics in africa and caribbean for plan to spend $ 10 billion in new money on aids drugs , education , doctors and specialized laboratories in 14 countries ravaged by aids . initiative , announced by president in state of the union address , is intended to provide drugs for two million people , care for 10 million aids patients and orphans and education to help stem epidemic .
 two men are said to have removed laptop and personal belongings of rev michael_jude fay from office of st_john_roman_catholic_church in darien , conn . computer may contain information relevant to investigation by federal_bureau_of_investigation and diocese into allegations that he misspent $ 200,000 in parish funds . fay has resigned as pastor .
 china 's response to tsunami disaster is showing its limitations as aspiring superpower . it pledged $ 63 million , figure that was quickly eclipsed when united_states increased its pledge to $ 350 million and japan followed with $ 500 million . as american vessels move quickly into affected region with navy helicopters delivering food and critical supplies , and convoy of american ships is expected to arrive in sri_lanka with 1,500 marines , china 's primary contribution at scene of catastrophe has been 35-member medical team .
 india welcomes nearly 2,000 indians who emigrated or whose forebears emigrated for conference intended determine how resources and achievements of indian diaspora might be used to uplift india . legislation is being introduced to grant dual citizenship to people of indian origin living in us , britain , australia , new_zealand , canada and singapore . participants voice concerns ranging from hindu-muslim violence to indian government 's silence when rights of indians abroad are violated .
 moscow is home to most of russia 's wealth , but figures indicate that all russia is on economic roll . domestic output grew by 4.3 percent in 2002 . some private experts say true number is above 5 percent . this is country 's third year of robust growth , making it second-fastest-growing nation among emerging economies after dozen years of capitalism . one big caveat is that growth has been driven far more by high oil prices than by manufacturing , base of most rebounds . glossiest of optimists say russian economy is on track to triple by 2010 to trillion dollars a year .
 jessica_bennett , 103-pound wrestler on montville_high_school -lrb- connecticut -rrb- boys ' team , has won 23 of her 35 matches this season . nationwide , about 5,000 high school girls wrestled in 2006 , nearly five times as many as decade earlier . girls ' wrestling is poised to take off now that women 's wrestling is olympic sport . legal status of coed wrestling is not entirely clear , but in few cases , courts have ruled that if there is no girls ' team for them , they should be able to join boys ' teams .
 board of district council 37 , new_york_city 's largest municipal union , cuts salaries of executive director lillian_roberts and treasurer_maf_misbah_uddin by 20 percent , two weeks after they narrowly win bitter election battle . both had denounced previous treasurer mark_rosenthal for earning too much . roberts will now be paid $ 175,000 , udin $ 140,000 .
 yugoslavia has been renamed state_union of serbia and montenegro , but people of both republics believe new name is awful and will not last long . western europe insist on illusion of union between serbia and montenegro because otherwise it would be impossible to contain kosovo separatist demands , but inevitability of talks on future status of kosovo makes it more likely that serbia and montenegro will part company as soon as terms of their new relationship allow .
 murder trial of phillip_grant begins in new_york_state_supreme_court . grant is accused of murder as hate crime in connection with killing of concetta_russo-carriero in white_plains , ny , in 2005 . grant , who is black , said he had sought white victim . killing spurred changes in city policies when it was learned that grant was one of several level 3 sex offenders allowed to wander streets of white_plains .
 oil industry officials tell federal lawmakers that environmental regulations are driving up price of gasoline . their testimony before senate environment and public works committee comes two days after several industry groups applauded new emission standards for diesel fuel and one day after cost of barrel of crude oil rises to highest level in nearly 14 years . it also follows latest earnings from some of nation 's largest oil companies , which report record profits for first_quarter of year .
 democratic national_committee gives $ 1 million to its new_york state branch in order to help defeat mayor michael_r_bloomberg and gov george_e_pataki . terry_mcauliffe says one of his regrets on stepping down as national_party chairman is that two most visible posts in state have belonged to republicans for dozen years . assemblyman herman_d_farrell , state_democratic_party chairman , says he has two-year plan for race for governor and mayor , which includes hiring of political adviser howard_wolfson .
 rod palm , diver in tofino , british_columbia , claims anchor he salvaged from templar_strait belonged to tonquin , fur-trading vessel that established first american settlement on west_coast , astoria in what is now oregon , before being lost off vancouver_island in 1811 . claim sets off lively debate among maritime historians and underwater archaeologists . palm 's decision to keep anchor perturbs british columbian authorities .
 armed men enter baghdad municipal building during blinding dust storm , depose mayor alaa_al-tamimi and install member of powerful shiite militia . tamimi , who was not in his office , says he is in hiding . secular engineer was installed first by us administrator l paul_bremer and then by central government . new man , hussein_al-tahaan , is member of badr militia , installed with help of city council chief , mazan_a_makkia , who has been feuding with mayor . us soldier is killed and two wounded by car bomb in central_baghdad and marine is killed in ramadi . at least nine security officers die in four attacks . sec donald_rumsfeld says iran has become conduit for smuggling arms into iraq .
 bass associates , in unusual step aimed at helping to prevent artists , galleries and other art-related businesses from moving out of manhattan 's west_chelsea neighborhood , plans to build 20-story chelsea arts tower on site of former parking lot at 545 west 25th street . $ 60 million development features full-floor units of 3,100 to 4,700 square feet . buyers will build their own interiors .
 group of investors in new_york_city agrees to provide $ 200 million in financing for elaborate plan to lay 130 miles of high-voltage underground transmission cables that would bring vast amounts of electricity from upstate to city in coming years . experts say investment is biggest bet on new electricity supply for new_york_city since at least mid-1990 ` s . group , which includes some of new_york 's most prominent financial players , is led by kohlberg_kravis_roberts_&_company .
 egyptian government charges that mohamed essam_ghoneim was recruited by mossad while living in turkey to gather information on egyptians and arabs in turkey and select potential recruits . says mossad set ghoneim up with new identity in canada . ghoneim was arrested on his return to egypt and is said to have confessed . faces 15 to 25 years in prison . israel denies charges .
 mutlilateral talks on north korean nuclear programs end inconclusively after four days of negotiations . united_states and north_korea pledge to meet in smaller working groups and hold another formal session before end of june . north_korea blames united_states for lack of breakthrough , but criticism is not as sharp as that following earlier sessions in april and august , when north_korea threatened to abandon talks and expand its nuclear program .
 air force drops criminal charges against two us fighter pilots who killed four canadian soldiers in bombing error in afghanistan in april 2002 . maj william_umbach will be allowed to retire and maj harry_schmidt faces reprimand that will effectively end career . photo . soldiers ' families protest . joint us-canadian panel found schmidt was too quick to pull trigger , ignoring order to hold fire , and umbach failed to rein him in .
 article on former new jersey gov christie_whitman , who became head of environmental_protection_agency in 2001 and has written new book , it 's my party , too : the battle for the heart of the gop and the future of america . book , catalog of whitman 's personal accomplishments and grievances , is intended as manifesto for change in conservative-dominated republican party and may be designed to boost whitman 's political reputation .
 lillian_roberts , who is seeking re-election as president of district_council 37 , new_york_city 's largest municipal labor_union , faces tough contest from charles_ensley . saves most of her criticism for ensley 's running mate , mark_rosenthal , whom she accuses of corruption . rosenthal says roberts 's intransigence in negotiations has cost union some members and cost members some money .
 9/11 commission chairman thomas_h_kean and vice chairman lee_h_hamilton ask vice pres dick_cheney to turn over intelligence reports that would support bush administration 's insistence that there was close relationship between saddam_hussein and al_qaeda . say they want any information to back cheney 's suggestion that mohamed_atta , ringleader of hijacking plot , might have met in prague in april 2001 with iraqi intelligence agent , meeting that panel 's staff believes did not take place . cheney photo .
 intel_corp says its profit nearly doubled in second_quarter . its shares drop in after-hours trading after company lowers its forecast of profit margins and reports inventories have risen . profit was $ 1.76 billion compared with $ 896 million year earlier . revenue rose 18 percent , to $ 8.05 billion from $ 6.82 billion . chief financial officer andy d bryant expects revenue for third_quarter to be $ 8.6 billion to $ 9.2 billion , above wall street forecasts of $ 8.1 billion .
 footlights column : caramoor center artistic director peter_oundjian is named music director of toronto_symphony_orchestra , beginning in 2004-2005 season . nathan_kline_institute_for_psychiatric_research psychologist irene_levine arranges for showings of tim_mccann film revolution no 9 in los_angeles and nyack , ny . works by members of brush chisel lens arts group will be shown at st_cabrini_nursing home in dobbs ferry .
 opec oil ministers , seeking to stem price slide , agree to cut production by million barrels a day , to 27 million barrels , and call for emergency meeting in january to consider quota reduction . price of crude oil plunges as traders question significance of reduction and whether opec will stick to cuts . oil for january delivery drops $ 1.82 , or 4.3 percent , to $ 40.71 a barrel in new_york .
 richard_d_parsons , chief executive of aol_time_warner , will succeed stephen m case as chairman , culminating surprising consolidation of parson 's power in two years since aol acquired time_warner . some major shareholders say they still plan to take wait-and-see attitude toward parsons . some institutional investors urged board to keep duties of chairman and chief executive separated , given current climate of corporate scandals and federal investigations into accounting at aol division of aol_time_warner .
 arts briefing column : neeme_jarvi is named principal conductor and music director designate of new_jersey_symphony_orchestra . will succeed zdenek_macal , music director emeritus , in 2005-6 season . chinese author and filmmaker dai_sijie is awarded france 's prix femina for his novel le complexe de di -lrb- the di complex -rrb- . king juan_carlos and queen sophia are on hand at dedication of museu_picasso , new museum dedicated to picasso in malaga , spain .
 judge t s ellis 3d sentences darleen_a_druyun , former top air_force official , to nine months in prison after she acknowledges she favored boeing co in multibillion-dollar defense contracts while seeking jobs at company for herself and family . druyun pleaded guilty in april to one count of conspiracy for negotiating job with boeing overseeing its business with pentagon . offers details on extent of her favoritism toward boeing as well as difficult negotiations during which she admitted to misleading government investigators . apologizes to court for her actions .
 newly created office of iranian affairs in state dept is poring over applications for rapidly expanding program to change political process inside iran . project , which will spend $ 7 million in current fiscal year , would become many times larger next year if congress approves request for $ 85 million that bush administration has requested for exchange programs , radio and television broadcasts and other activities . effort , overseen by elizabeth_cheney , deputy assistant secretary of state who is daughter of vice pres dick_cheney , has been denounced by iran 's leaders .
 ajay banga and steven_j_freiberg , citigroup 's newly named co-directors of global consumer banking group , are personal friends , in contrast to competitive relationship between citigroup chairman sanford_i_weill and john_s_reed , former co-chairman . any signs of unity inside walls of citigroup might understandably be met with skepticism . it has been long , hot summer filled with recriminating headlines and power-struggle intrigue as chief executive charles o prince moves to cement his authority .
 britain to severely restrict work by bulgarians and romanians after two countries join european_union in january . new policy is enormous shift for britain , which championed open job market but was shocked by huge numbers of eastern_europeans , particularly poles , who poured in after 2004 . estimated 500,000 have registered as workers with thousands more off books . sec john_reid announces strict criteria for newcomers .
 anemona_hartocollis column on relief in harlem and washington heights that no . 9 subway line , with its skip-stop service , is due to end in may and that full local service will be restored from 242nd street to 137th streets . notes that no . 9 riders are overwhelmingly black , hispanic and poorer and that riders at northern end of no . 1 line , who benefit from skip-stop service , are more likely to be white and middle class .
 article on six municipal electric companies in connecticut : norwich , groton , wallingford , jewett city and two companies that serve different areas of norwalk . youngest , third district_electric in norwalk , is 91 and companies in norwich and groton are celebrating their centennials . municipally-run utilities offer personalized attention , community-oriented service as well as lower rates .
 thanksgiving day in new_york this year features debate between producers of macy 's parade and actor harvey_fierstein , whose new_york times op-ed article invoked his scheduled appearance in parade as rhetorical device to discuss same-sex marriage . photo of fierstein as mrs_claus . santa will , in the end , have female mrs_claus , with fierstein on separate float .
 drs albert_myrick and sarka_southern , former government scientists who spend years investigating stress in dolphin populations , charge that supervisors at southwest_fisheries_science_center in san_diego shut down their research because it clashed with policy goals of clinton and bush administrations , which sought to certify mexican fishing operations as ` dolphin safe ' . accusations follow sec donald l evans ' decision that chasing and corralling dolphins and tuna that accompany them into purse nets has ` no significant adverse impact ' on dolphins .
 health fund covering 55,000 new_york_city janitors is nearing insolvency , and janitors ' union officials threaten strike against more than 1,000 office buildings in october if real estate industry does not come up with money to close fund 's $ 175 million operating deficit . james_f_berg , industry 's chief negotiator , says there is no way that building owners and operators would be willing to increase their annual health contributions by $ 175 million a year .
 labor department reports unemployment rose 0.1 percent , to 4.6 percent , in january , highest level since september . says employers added 111,000 jobs in january , about half the monthly gains reported at end of 2006 . acknowledges that employers added nearly one million more jobs from march 2005 through last december than it had previously estimated .
 prosecutors have not actually lost any significant case since beginning of recent wave of white-collar fraud trials , despite mistrials in high-profile trials of former tyco_international executives l dennis_kozlowski and mark h swartz and former credit_suisse first boston_investment banker frank_quattrone . conventional wisdom holds juries can not understand complex corporate fraud cases , but experience suggests otherwise , and mistrials can not be seen as victory for defendants . prosecutors plan to retry kozlowski and schwartz .
 china has been careful to preserve many portuguese aspects of macao , which it acquired five years ago . renaissance of portuguese on macao is dictated by china 's new determination that macao will serve as platform for china 's growing commercial and strategic interests in latin_world . macao has found new role : china 's link to 220 million people of portuguese-speaking world .
 murray chass on baseball column contends that new_york_yankees owner george_steinbrenner was unwise to publicly criticize infielder jason_giambi 's agent arn_tellem , as he also reprepsents valuable yankee players hideki_matsui , mariano_rivera and mike_mussina . contends that steinbrenner may have exacerbated giambi 's uphill battle to handle allegations that he used steroids .
 political action committee for gov george_e_pataki gathered over $ 1 million in 2004 . among biggest donors were four business leaders or officials involved in rebuilding ground zero . developers made unusually large donations of $ 25,000 each to committee , which was created in virginia to avoid new_york state campaign finance limits . donors are daniel and john_tishman , john_c_whitehead and lloyd_goldman . pataki photo .
 qwest_communications is not first choice of mci chief executive michael_d_capellas as buyer of mci because qwest has its own problems . word of talks between two companies is being interpreted in industry as thinly veiled attempt by capellas to generate interest from verizon_communications and bellsouth so that they might make competing bids for mci .
 securities and exchange_commission is probing altera_corp , california chip maker , over its retaliation this year against wall street analysts who were less than bullish on company 's shares . informal inquiry may indicate that blackballing of analysts by companies is of concern to new sec chairman christopher_cox . altera says it is cooperating fully in matter .
 rituals column on larp , live action role playing events in which dozens of men and women , mostly in their 30 's , gather five times each year to live out elaborate tales , steeped in myth or science fiction , created by game master dirk_parham . gordon_olstead-dean , chief staff officer of live action role-players assn , estimates that 15,000 americans particpate in at least one larp event each year .
 article on growth of and changes at myspace.com , originally introduced in 2002 by chris_dewolfe and reintroduced in summer 2003 by euniverse , later renamed intermix_media , as social networking site . rupert_murdoch , whose_news_corp bought myspace and intermix last year , has embraced dewolfe and myspace president and co-founder tom_anderson and their management team and is slowly adding advertising to mix . news corp is assembling overarching online unit fox interactive media to cobble together several web properties into big internet company focused on youth , with myspace as its top priority .
 russian pres vladimir v putin insists that pro-russian candidate viktor f yanukovich won presidential election in ukraine , while pres bush and leaders of european_union side with opposition charges that vote was rigged . putin appears to be insisting that lines defining moscow 's sphere of influence in eastern_europe -- which have been retreating over last_15_years -- will hold firm at ukraine 's western_border . western leaders believe that democracy best guarantees their own security , and russia 's . putin appears to th ink that democracy is good , but that control -- within russia and over russia 's closest neighbors -- is better .
 sam_roberts news analysis of goverment rebates that are popular with taxpayers . new jersey and new_york_city both have successfully used rebates , but new jersey 's acting gov richard j codey proposes cutting program that gives break to elderly , disabled and those who pay high property taxes . some politicians , like new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg , find political benefit in conspicuous placement of their names on mailings and checks .
 joseph_siano article on building model of alfa_romeo_8c 2300 spider from kit made by pocher , italian company now owned by lima , another italian company . notes that pocher kits have 2,000 to 3,000 parts and are most detailed automotive kits ever sold . says his cost $ 375 , plus another $ 275 for package of enhancement parts .
 influential outside advisers to bush administration who support iraqi exile leader ahmad_chalabi are pressing administration to stop vilifying him . several of supporters , including richard_n_perle and r james_woolsey , met recently with national security adviser condoleezza_rice to complain about ` smear campaign . ` chalabi , favorite of conservatives , is suspected of having given highly classified data to iran . perle charges central_intelligence_agency , defense_intelligence_agency and some former intelligence officers plant stories about him , interview . holds american administrator l paul_bremer_iii is involved . coalition authorities in iraq and cia deny charges .
 gas companies in brazil are facing uncertain political and legal environment after two years of protests by indigenous groups . companies are holding back on investments , and work force at serpetbol , short for servicios_petroleros_bolivianos , has dropped to 400 , from 1,200 in early 2003 . referendum will be held on what to do with bolivia 's gas .
 analysis of pres bush 's decision to nominate paul_d_wolfowitz as president of world_bank . says appointment is seen as provocative in some quarters , abroad and at home . says that seems precisely bush 's aim . says bush wants wolfowitz to shake up world of international economic development . notes unidentified wolfowitz associate expects him to demand fresh accountability from governments that receive aid .
 jeb bush is leaving as one of most popular and prominent governors in florida 's history after eight years . despite wishful prodding , he has adamantly ruled out presidential campaign of his own next year , but rumors about his future have burst forth . one is that he would become sen john_mccain 's running mate if mccain wins republican nomination for president . one of bush 's former chiefs of staff has gone to work for mccain 's exploratory committee , but several other former aides have signed up with gov mitt_romney , another probable republican contender .
 osvaldo rodriguez_borunda_publishes_newspaper_el_diario in ciudad juarez , mex , and he wants to start newspaper across border in el_paso in challenge to el_paso_times , which was founded in 1881 and bought by gannett_co in 1972 . gannett says rodriguez is opportunist , seeking government help in his attempt to expand his private empire . rivalry between rodriguez and times has spilled over into news columns . times has published reports connecting rodriguez to drug-trafficking organization and to violent threats against his son . rodriguez has denied allegations and el_diario has run editorials criticizing times for its coverage . el diario has published articles and editorials calling attention to what it says is disconnect between largely sanitized , formulaic and anglo version of el paso in times and predominantly hispanic version on streets . mack_quintana , publisher of el_paso_times , comments .
 escalating rents , especially in prime manhattan neighborhoodsk , are helping to drive out traditional supermarkets . one small supermarket chain , morton_williams associated markets , would like to expand in new_york_city but has been unable to find space it can afford . food city markets once had six stores in manhattan and is now down to one . freshdirect , online grocery service , has made big impact in new_york area since it opened its long_island_city plant in 2002 . company has about 150,000 customers and takes in about $ 200 million each year -- as much as 80 percent of it coming from manhattan . d ' agostino supermarket on university place is closing after two decades .
 james_coleman is indicted on murder charges for 2003 killings of shani_baraka , daughter of poet amiri_baraka , and rayshon_holmes in piscataway -lrb- nj -rrb- home . is thought to have shot holmes and baraka , sister of his estranged wife wanda_pasha , in escalation of domestic violence , for which coleman also faces charges .
 article on increasing number of homeowners in new_york metropolitan area who are using trellises , arbors and pergolas to grow plants vertically and thus give structure to their yards . carolyn_summers of hastings-on-hudson , who is growing plants on deer fence and arbor and has trained pear trees on 12-foot-high espalier , steve_kottage who has arbor outside his house in weston , conn , and others comment .
 bush administration has sided with juneau-douglas high school principal deborah_morse and juneau_school_board in case of student joseph_frederick , who was suspended for holding up banner with inscription ` bong hits 4 jesus ' during public event . appeal has reached supreme_court , with american_civil_liberties_union and religious groups on frederick 's side championing free speech and freedom of religion .
 consumers are finding that telephone companies , including sbc_communications , verizon and bellsouth , are only offering high-speed internet broadband service as bundle with traditional phone service . some lawmakers and consumer advocates say issue should be on agenda as government considers market impact of sbc 's planned $ 16 billion acquisition of at & t and verizon 's $ 6.75 billion offer for mci , which is being challenged by rival offer from qwest_communications .
 north koreans make up almost entire staff at 12-story resort built by south_korea in kosong , north_korea . north_korea allowed south_korea to build resort with proviso that all workers be foreigners , fearing north_koreans would be contaminated by capitalist visitors . now north_koreans have opened three restaurants and two gift shops . in contrast to washington 's hard-line approach , south_korea and other countries want to engage north_korea , to bring thousands of carefree south korean visitors to hotel so that average north_koreans can see the difference between their lives . big question is whether north korean leaders really want reform , or are they desperately trying to cling to power with hard cash brought in by tourists .
 illegal numbers games quietly persist 25 years after new_york state lottery was created . underground numbers games have endured because street pays better odds than state , tax-free , and mony speaks every language in city . its attraction is promise of tiny windfall , enough to change life a bit for a short while . one organization that controlled 80 numbers spots around new_york_city generated $ 5 million a year in profits before being dismantled . basic structure of games has been same for generations . player picks three-digit number and bets anywhere from fistful of coins to $ 30 that it will be chosen as winning number of day . chances of winning with three-digit number are 1,000 to 1 and payoff is 600 to 1 . state-sponsored lottery in new_york pays 500 to 1 . numbers gambling described in detail .
 randall_stross digital domain column on amazon 's inability to be forthcoming about its operations . says amazon is happy to talk about future projections , but it appears to hate to talk about present . holds amazon released its fourth-quarter results this month , and , again , unwelcome surprises arrived : earnings fell 43 percent from period year earlier .
 pres bush 's decision not to address naacp 's annual convention is ` firing up ' black voters like francine_poller to work for democrat john_kerry . bush is now first president since herbert_hoover not to meet with naacp for entire term . kerry was already expected to win 85 percent of black vote , but question is whether he can energize blacks to turn out .
 justice albert_tomei advises jurors in brooklyn murder trial of , lesbian lory m scott that case in slaying of husband nubian knight is circumstantial but that jurors can infer intent . knight was found murdered in his apartment in 2003 and scott and her uncle denmark black , who arranged scott_marriage to knight , had taken out life insurance policies totaling about $ 1.5 million on knight . black has not been charged .
 consolidated edison says frayed underground wires that electrified sidewalk in east village section of manhattan on march 9 , shocking two dogs , had been inspected and found safe on jan_17 , day after woman was electrocuted two blocks from site of incident in march . critics say con ed should have annual visual inspections of all wires , not just check area for stray voltage . electricians ' union calls for replacing electrical infrastructure of city .
 law enforcement officials in phoenix say that latest package deal that smugglers offered to illegal immigrants in sneaking across mexican border includes flights from las_vegas to points around country arranged by arizona_travel agents . details of air_travel business , which authorities say totaled $ 2 million in bookings , are disclosed in indictments against 14 travel agents from six agencies .
 sen john_edwards seeks to raise his profile in final weeks of presidential campaign . he appears on five sunday news and political talk shows in single day . this follows weeks of heavy campaigning in rural areas and small-to medium-size cities , trips that earned sen kerry campaign presence in local media markets but also drew questions from some democrats about why edwards was not more visible nationally .
 us dollar and treasury yields rise after japanese prime min junichiro koizumi makes remarks that suggest country 's central bank could be shifting some of its huge reserves out of dollars and treasury securities . japan 's finance_ministry quickly denies there is any change , statement that limits fall of dollar and bolsters treasury prices . euro is valued at $ 1.3424 , with dollar down 0.1 percent in late trading , and dollar is up 0.2 percent against yen . yield on 10-year treasury note , which rose to 4.56 percent , finishes day at 4.50 percent , down from 4.52 percent .
 yahoo 's chief executive terry s semel resigns and will be succeeded by jerry_yang , co-founder of company in 1994 . decision follows 18 months of turmoil for yahoo , as company disappointed wall street and many in its ranks some analysts maintain that shake-up may be only prelude to more substantial corporate overhaul , which could include merger or sale . yahoo , which is being eclipsed by success of google 's innovations , is going back to its technology roots .
 top real estate agents are among biggest beneficiaries of hot housing market over last five years . with house prices skyrocketing and homes in most desirable markets selling in matter of days , some brokers are enjoying incomes and lifestyles that approach those of their wealthiest clients . their success is inspiring new generation of prospective sales agents . likelihood is that many of them will not earn decent living at it because there are too many brokers . real estate commissions -- typically 5 or 6 percent -- are under pressure as discount brokers offer stripped-down services for as little as 2 percent . traditional brokers have responded by restricting access to property listings that brokers in region share . industry newsletter finds that agents in united_states collected $ 61.1 billion in commissions last year , up 43 percent from 2000 .
 sen john_kerry speaks at forum of college students in providence , ri , denouncing apathy and trying to get young people excited about politics and public service . draws bigger crowd at university of rhode_island than he did earlier at university_of_new_hampshire . attacks pres bush over financing for college tuition at time when tuition has risen 28 percent in three years . raises money in providence and boston .
 pres bush pledges to grant un ` vital role ' in postwar iraq , but defines that as providing food , medicine and aid , news conference after meeting with prime min tony_blair in northern ireland . photo . differences seen with countries like france and germany that want more central role for un . blair plays down differences to focus on working together . bush says that whether or not saddam_hussein is still alive , his grasp around throats of iraqis is coming off ` finger by finger ' .
 editorial praises yonkers_city_council members dee_barbato and john_murtagh for their cautious approach to ridge hill village , $ 600 million mini-city proposal by developer bruce_ratner , despite recent approval of zoning changes . calls on skeptics to continue to push for road improvements , affordable housing and input from wetchester_county and town of greenburgh .
 group dancing in the streets commissions choreographers to create new_york_city site-specific works in less than week . for most recent offering , choreographers tere_o'connor , larry_keigwin , jawole willa_jo_zollar , ann_carlson and team eiko_&_koma are notified that location is empire-fulton ferry state park in brooklyn , and have six days to ready 5 - to 10-minute pieces .
 court ruling barring sale of conrad m black 's controlling stake of hollinger_international_to_barclay_brothers_of_britain sets in motion long-delayed auction of company 's assets , which include daily telegraph of london , jerusalem_post , chicago sun-times and more than 100 smaller publications , mostly in midwestern us . more than 50 prospective bidders have already lined up to sign nondisclosure agreements and gain access to company 's confidential financial information .
 frontier town , once popular western theme park in north_hudson , ny , is now ghost town . essex county seized last of park 's assets in 2004 because of $ 318,000 in back taxes . frontier town drew hundreds of thousands of people between time it opened on july 4_, 1952 and 1999 , when last owner closed park because of lack of financing . stagecoaches , trains and covered wagons were sold at recent auction . land is expected to be sold in four parcels to highest bidders .
 arthur_lubow article on authenticity of black paintings , series of works by francisco_goya , which depict nightmarish visions . juan jose_junquera , professor of art history at complutense_university , madrid , has concluded that they were actually painted by goya 's son javier , and passed off as work by francisco by javier 's only son mariano , profligate who was chronically in need of funds . painstaking method of determining attribution described .
 epa asst admr thomas_p_dunne , superfund manager , says cleanup program is being strangled by pressures on annual $ 450 million budget and growing number of contaminated sites . new report says $ 250 billion will be needed in next decade . dunne calls for frank_non-partisan discussion of expectations and abilities . critics say real problem is lack of will in bush administration and republican controlled in congress .
 united_states and iraq submit military partnership plan to united_nations_security_council , seeking resolution conferring international legitimacy on american-led multinational_force after iraq regains sovereignty on june 30 . plan seeks to resolve issues of what independence iraqi troops will have under american command and what say iraqis will have in conduct of foreign troops . letters detailing proposed arrangement are submitted by sec_of_state_colin_l_powell and iyad_allawi , prime minister of new iraqi interim government .
 daniel gross economic view column on difference between statistical data that pres bush uses to show that economy has been growing and new_york_times / cbs_news poll . poll shows that only 28 percent of respondents approve of pres bush 's handling of economy , only 6 percent rate economy as very good , while 46 percent say it is fairly bad or very bad .
 article on lack of enthusiasm among long_island business leaders , transit advocates and planning experts for new_york gov george_pataki 's proposed $ 6 billion plan to build new long_island rail road tunnel under east river that would link lower manhattan to kennedy_airport and long_island . long island commuters appear to back pataki , who says new link would reduce congestion on subways that carry long_island riders from penn station or atlantic terminal in brooklyn and cut travel time to airport . transit advocates say more important projects need to be implemented and finished .
 new_york_city police say crash that killed monsignor farrell high school -lrb- nyc -rrb- student leonardo_ingrassia occurred when five teenagers insulted group of girls in staten_island . girls reportedly called group of older boys , who drove to monsignor farrell and may have incited high speed car chase . police are still looking for alleged other group of boys , but witnesses say they did not see another vehicle chasing car that ingrassia was thrown from .
 san_diego , tex , town of 4,800 people , has lost two residents , army specialist jose_amancio_perez_iii and marine lance_cpl_ruben_valdez jr , in iraq , making it one of smallest communities in us to have more than one resident killed in war . town is 97 percent hispanic , and many residents are related .
 french are invited to express preference , via paper ballot and internet , for one of four architectural schemes to remake 36-acre site of les halles . mayor bertrand_delanoe says this will insure more open selection process than it was in 1979 , when jacques_chirac made decision resulting in ` utterly banal ' mall and transportation_center . designs by rem_koolhaas , david_mangin , jean_nouvel and winy maas .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column reports on british navy 's efforts to train 1,000-man iraqi_navy . notes iraqi navy has important job : with us , british and australian help , it oversees iraq 's only port -- umm qasr -- and two oil pumping stations off coast of umm qasr . notes this is where virtually all of iraq 's one million barrels of oil -- nearly 90 percent of iraq 's gdp -- get loaded onto tankers daily .
 since war between israel and hezbollah ended in august , nearly three people have been wounded or killed each day by cluster bombs israel dropped in waning days of war , and officials now say it will take more than year to clear region of them . united nations officials estimate that southern lebanon is littered with one million unexploded bomblets , far outnumbering 650,000 people living in region . bomblets are stuck in branches of olive trees and broad leaves of banana trees . are on rooftops , mixed in with rubble and littered across fields , farms , driveways , roads and outside schools . officials say that as of sept 28 , cluster bombs severely wounded 190 people -- and killed 18 others .
 hours after palestinian suicide bomber kills 15 people aboard bus in haifa , armored israeli forces storm jabiliya refugee camp in gaza_strip in pursuit of hamas leader . 11 palestinians are killed in explosion at camp 's edge as israeli forces withdraw . palestinian witnesses claim israeli tank fired shell into crowd , but israeli army rejects that account , claiming casualties were caused by palestinian explosive . three crude rockets are fired from gaza at israeli town of sederot , without injury . shortly after , israeli tanks moved back into northern_gaza_strip for what has makings of extended stay .
 altemio sanchez is arrested in cheektowaga , ny , in connection with murders and rapes in buffalo area between 1986 and 1994 . is charged with three murders altogether , but statute of limitations has expired on rapes of women who survived . was known as ` bike path rapist ' . suspected victims include linda_yalem , majane_mazur and , on sept 26 , 2006 , joan_diver . investigators used dna samples to indentify sanchez .
 unexpected size of march in hong_kong on july 1 has put renewed pressure on local government and beijing to allow greater democracy , but little change is likely until after sept 12 legislative elections . crowd , estimated at 200,000 to 530,000 protesters , is evidence that chinese government 's efforts to dampen democratic sentiment in hong_kong have not succeeded .
 connecticut legislature report concludes that rowland_administration was heavily involved in decision to commission costly fuel cell plant in middletown and steer work to united_technologies , rowland 's employer before becoming governor . says decision to use fuel cells and ultimate selection of contractor for project appears to have been made by nicholas_cioffi , retired judge who has ties to rowland_administration and is close friend of peter_ellef , rowland 's co-chief of staff in 2002 . fuel cell plant supplies power to adjacent juvenile training center , which was built by tomasso family of builders . they are at center_of_investigation_of_rowland_administration because of number of no-bid contract they have been awarded .
 margaret_hassan , british-iraqi director of care international in iraq , is kidnapped in baghdad and appears later in videotape made by abductors . longtime advocate for iraqis , who is married to iraqi and has lived there for 30 years , is pulled from car by armed men who beat her driver . she is one of few western nationals still working in country , is widely respected and speaks fluent arabic . mortar attack on iraqi_national_guard base north of baghdad kills at least four iraqis and wounds 80 . photos . us military reports progress in weapons buyback in sadr_city .
 on stage and off column : four new plays inspired by september 11 are set to open in new_york over next two months . lincoln center theater executive producer bernard_gersten sent letter to subscribers promoting play omnium gatherum , written by theresa_rebeck and his niece , alexandra_gersten-vassilaros , which is in previews at variety arts theater and is not a lincoln center theater production . manhattan theater club executive producer barry_grove and artistic director lynne_meadow scramble to complete renovations of biltmore theater before debut of richard_greenberg 's play violet hour . roundabout theater plans to open new production of stephen_sondheim and john_weidman musical pacific overtures , directed by amon_miyamoto , on broadway next fall .
 profile of andrew_murstein , whose company , medallion_financial_corp , has lent over $ 1 billion to finance purchases of taxicab medallions in new_york_city and has never had a loss . he says company repossesses average of just two medallions a year out of 3,000 loans , and that only as last resort .
 two jewish sisters separated for 52 years are reunited in yehud , israel , when one sister , lifelong resident of basra , iraq , flies to israel . she is one of six iraqi jews on flight . with americans in charge of iraq now , israel is pushing to develop contacts and relations that have not existed since israel 's founding in 1948 .
 new_york state governor george_e_pataki criticizes new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg for pushing for greater share of federal security aid that will be given to state to help combat terrorism . bloomberg hopes for 80 percent of $ 650 million allocation to go to city , while pataki would like to see state get more than 20 percent . pataki indicates that bloomberg 's insistence on greater share might hurt his request for commuter tax .
 miramax 's film version of musical chicago and paramount-miramax movie the hours emerge as big winners at golden_globe awards , and are poised to capitalize at box office and in runup to oscars . photo of the hours producer scott_rudin with co-stars nicole_kidman , julianne more and meryl streep . two films are opening around country just after awards ceremony is seen by television audience now second only to oscar broadcast . miramax co-chairman harvey_weinstein expresses special pleasure over martin_scorsese winning director award for gangs of new_york .
 news analysis on unfulfilled potential of 2003 new_york_city deal with snapple as official city beverage . mayor michael_r_bloomberg hailed agreement as new era of corporate partnerships that would harness power of market to spread city 's image . deal is recently amended , with city receiving $ 17.7 million instead of projected $ 66 million over five years . city admits deal was too ambitious , with difficulties placing vending machines in city properties . city will refocus on promoting snapple through advertising .
 critics of microsoft maintain that company is increasing its donation of software to us nonprofit organization as way of undercutting free software movement favored by developers of open source programs . microsoft , which is distributing to nonprofits through san francisco-based compumentor , is increasing its donations to a level nearing $ 1 billion annually over next three to four years .
 op-ed article by murray_fromson , cbs_news correspondent during vietnam war , recalls circumstances behind r w apple jr 's frontpage article in the new_york_times in 1967 that gradually altered perception of american success or failure for remainder of vietnam war . says report , later aired on cbs_news , quoted unidentified general who offered sober , intellectual analysis of problems facing both americans and vietnamese . notes this enraged pres lyndon_b_johnson . fromson says he has finally obtained permission from source to reveal his name : frederick_weyand , retired three-star general who is now 90 .
 liberal network known as air_america_radio says its progamming will make its debut on march 31 on low-rated stations in new_york , los_angeles and chicago . says its hosts will include al_franken , comedian and political satirist , actress janeane_garofalo , hip-hop artist chuck d and media analyst martin_kaplan . network 's chief executive is mark_walsh .
 minnesota board of medical practice in 1997 suspended license of dr faruk abuzzahab after 5 patients died in his care or shortly afterward , yet from 1997 to 2005 , several drug companies hired him to conduct multiple drug trials and paid him over $ 55,000 in speaking and consulting fees . examination of minnesota 's records on drug company payments to doctors found that from 1997 to 2005 , at least 103 doctors who had been disciplined or criticized by state_medical_board received total of $ 1.7 million from drug makers . cases of david_olson and susan_endersbe , patients of abuzzahab who committed suicide , noted .
 new_york_city 's union leaders of 1975 , victor_gotbaum of municipal workers ' union , albert_shanker of teachers ' union , and barry_feinstein of teamsters local , may have been loudmouthed and cantankerous , but joined with mayor abraham_beame as city teetered near bankrupcty , agreeing to pay freeze , deferring wage increases and lending city billions of dollars from pension funds . situation today is viewed in sharp contrast , as leaders lack dominating personalities and have rejected mayor michael_bloomberg 's money-saving concession demands to help close city 's budget deficit . of today 's leaders , lillian_roberts of district council 37 , randi_weingarten of teachers ' union and carl_haynes of teamsters local , only weingarten shows outspokenness reminiscent of predecessors . one of big differences is that leaders of mid-1970 ` s were more united and worked in concert , in contrast to today 's more fractured labor coalition .
 analysis of looming shortfalls in social security and medicare programs . bush administration has estimated gap between promises under current law and revenues expected will total $ 18 trillion over next 75 years . treasury department study in 2002 concluded that gap is actually $ 44 trillion and will climb each year that nothing is done . analysts in congress and administration warn that flood of retiring baby boomers will cause federal spending on old-age benefits to eventually consume as much of nation 's economy as entire federal budget does now . government is borrowing more than $ 200 billion per year from social security and medicare trust funds to finance its operating deficits .
 exelon_corp reportedly is in advanced talks to acquire pse & g , new jersey 's largest utility , for about $ 12 billion . deal would allow exelon chief executive john_rowe to expand business in northeast and create largest utility holding company in us , with annual revenue of more than $ 26 billion and 25,000 employees .
 dave_frieder talks about eight years he spent photographing new_york_city 's bridges from all angles . has been barred from climbing towers since sept 11 because of safety and security concerns . port authority of new_york and new jersey has allowed him back on george_washington_bridge , his favorite , but metropolitan_transportation_authority will not say when photographers might climb city 's bridges again .
 modesto , calif , for third year running , had highest per capita car-theft rate in us in 2005 . national insurance crime bureau says 7,000 thefts were reported in modesto and surrounding stanislaus_county . local authorities place blame on drugs , particularly methamphetamine , which has ravaged central_valley_of_california for better part of last decade .
 dan_barry about new_york column discusses brooklyn -lrb- nyc -rrb- cab driver mark_komissarov , who is teaching 12-year-old natalia_lulova and other children to tap into extrasensory potential of brain , alleging his students can see while blindfolded . lulova will compete for one million dollar paranormal challenge , but many are skeptical , as her gifts are demonstrated only under komissarov 's conditions and in his presence .
 film infamous , starring toby_jones and sandra_bullock , follows life of truman capote while he wrote definitive 1965 crime book in cold blood . film comes one year after hugely successful film capote , starring philip_seymour_hoffman , which may keep audiences from going to see movie they feel they have already seen . marketing executives at warner_independent_pictures are using strategy of using success of previous film while emphasizing differences between two . will face same issues for dvd release .
 article on major shift in hollywood in which event-movie directors , like lord of the rings director peter_jackson , are making huge salaries and becoming as valuable as highest-paid stars . jackson and his team cut 20/20 deal for rings trilogy -- $ 20 million in guaranteed up-front salary against 20 percent of gross receipts . first two parts of trilogy grossed total of $ 1.8 billion and jackson has made big-money deal to produce and direct another remake of king_kong .
 article on work being done by scholars searching for lost scores by antonio_vivaldi . discusses andromeda liberata , quasi opera that venice_baroque_orchestra , conducted by andrea_marcon , will tour in us at end of month . work is subject of dispute between vivaldi_expert_olivier_foures , who claims discovery of work , and music professor michael_talbot , who says work is ` pasticcio ' by many hands , with small contribution by vivaldi . meanwhile , englishwoman micky_white , now archivist and resident of ospedale_della_pieta , venetian children 's home where vivaldi worked throughout his life , decries vivaldi scholarship as ` disguised guesswork ' . interviews .
 capture of saddam_hussein three years ago was jubilant moment for white_house , but his execution seemed hardly to inspire same sentiment . pres bush , in statement written in advance , said execution would not end violence in iraq . growing chaos and violence in iraq has steadily overshadowed torturous rule of hussein , who for more than two decades held unique place in politics and psyche of us , symbol of manifestation of evil in middle_east . what could have been triumphal bookend to us invasion of iraq has instead been dampened by grim reality of conditions on ground there . chronology of major events in hussein 's two trials for crimes against humanity .
 mental health survey of troops in iraq released by pentagon highlights growing worry for us as it struggles to bring order to baghdad : high level of combat stress suffered during lengthy and repeated tours . report suggests that extended tours and multiple deployments could escalate anger and increase likelihood that soldiers or marines lash out at civilians , or defy military ethics . survey of 1,320 soldiers and 447 marines was conducted in august and september of 2006 .
 american and united , nation 's two largest airlines , say they will cut flights at o'hare_international_airport to ease congestion that has been delaying flights from coast to coast . federal_aviation_administration_head_marion_c_blakey predicts that new schedule will reduce waiting minutes at o'hare by 20 percent and reduce number of long delays , those exceeding two hours , by 34 percent .
 white_house and defense_sec donald h rumsfeld move quickly to contain unusual public breach over iraq policy after he tells reporters he was not consulted before national security adviser condoleezza_rice set up iraq_stabilization_group , move intended to give white_house more control over occupation . he denies his role in iraq policy is diminished . pres bush 's spokesman retracts earlier statement that rumsfeld was fully involved in decision . several administration officials say rice discussed issue with rumsfeld and other national_security_council members last week .
 russia tells iran that it will withhold nuclear fuel for iran 's nearly completed bushehr nuclear energy plant unless iran suspends uranium enrichment as demanded by united_nations_security_council . russia 's ultimatum may be result of argument about whether iran has paid its bills , but it could reflect increasing displeasure on russia 's part with iran 's refusal to stop enriching uranium . us officials welcome russian support on situation with iran , even as tensions grow between us and russia on other issues . un security council will vote this week on draft resolution imposing further sanctions on iran for its defiance of demands that it suspend enrichment activities and return to negotiations over its nuclear program .
 peter_applebome our towns column on donald_trump 's planned $ 40-million seaside dining and banquet hall at jones_beach_state_park in wantagh , ny . tells of debate on whether robert_moses , developer of jones_beach , would have approved of trump plan . moses biographer robert_caro says grand scale is antithetical to moses 's view of jones_beach .
 evidence is emerging that aids patients in africa are better at following their pill regimens than americans are . undermines prejudice that incomplete pill-taking in africa could speed mutation of drug-resistant strains . surveys in botswana , uganda , senegal and south_africa find that , on average , aids patients take about 90 percent of their drugs , compared to 70 percent in united_states . compliance has become easier becuse drugmakers from india and elsewhere are making triple-therapy drugs that come in as few as two pills a day .
 article in series gilded paychecks : who 's no 1 on executive compensation . focuses on iac / interactive chairman-chief executive barry_diller , who is most compensated executive in country . says corporate library study shows diller 's total compensation last year at $ 295 million , while glass_lewis_&_co study puts figure at $ 85 million . diller says his compensation is appropriate , considering wealth created for shareholders over last 11 years .
 time warner is close to settling securities and exchange commission probe into accounting at america online . development could give company more flexibility in its effort to buy adelphia_communications or make other acquisitions . sec and justice_department are investigating $ 400 million payment that america online received from bertelsmann_ag , which formerly owned half of aol europe . agencies are looking into whether payment was used improperly to inflate growth of aol .
 more than 8.1 million households in united_states , mostly in northeast , use oil to heat their homes , and they are going to have to pay a lot more to keep warm this_winter . federal energy information administration estimates average increase of 37 percent . as oil prices fluctuate , homeowners face decision of locking in their fuel purchase for whole year or waiting to see if prices will drop and filling up their tanks then .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column says every european government officially welcomed inauguration of pres bush , but prevailing mood on continent still seems to be one of shock that americans actually re-elected him . says bush represents party far to right of most major parties in europe , and one concrete result of us election will probably be to reinforce europe 's focus on its own efforts to build united_states of europe and to further play down trans-atlantic alliance .
 survivors of seige at beslan , russia , school describe 52 hours of killings and captivity at hands of masked gunmen before two bomb blasts set off battles between captors and russian forces that left hundreds of children and their parents and teachers dead . at least 1,200 people were crammed into school gymnasium , with no food and little water , with network of bombs laced overhead . terrorists teased child captives and shot at least one man to enforce rules .
 detectives patrick_h_rafferty and robert_l_parker , who were slain during struggle with marlon_legere on brooklyn street on sept 10 , led sharply contrasting lives in their off hours : rafferty an irish-american family man with roots on long_island and parker a divorced black man who lived close to area he patrolled .
 bloomberg_administration and united_federation_of_teachers are near contract accord . union and city officials say deal would include pay raises of up to 14 percent over three years , require teachers to work extra week at start of school year and perhaps lengthen school day . two sides are also angling for deal to be paid for at least partly by new_york_state as part of broader settlement of court battle over how albany distributes billions of dollars in aid to public schools . uft pres randi_weingarten photo .
 survivors of sunken ferry al salam_boccaccio 98 in red sea say they begged captain and his crew to turn ship around as smoke began to fill upper decks , but ferry continued in choppy waters on its way from daba , saudi_arabia , to safaga , egypt . captain and crew are said to have fled using lifeboats . at least 180 people and possibly hundreds of others died . family members blame government and ferry operator al salaam_maritime_transport_co .
 labor dept reports that nation added 157,000 jobs in dec and about 2.2 million jobs in 2004 -- good annual gain and best since 1999 . unemployment rated remained unchanged at 5.4 percent . manufacturing companies , which shed over two million jobs from 2000 to end of 2003 , added back only 96,000 in 2004 -- weakest rebound in factory employment of any economic recovery on record in us .
 article on art exhibition and nomadic museum , temporary museum designed by tokyo architect shigeru ban on pier 54 along hudson_river in manhattan . 45,000-square foot structure , made up of 148 cargo containers that form checkerboard walls , was built to display ashes and snow , show of 200 large-scale photographs by gregory_colbert . show and entire museum is to be packed in 37 cargo containers when it travels to california and vatican .
 john rockwell_article_on_modern_dance_duo_shapiro_&_smith , who are debuting work of choreography set to music of bruce_springsteen . piece is family affair : husband and wife team danial_shapiro and joanie_smith are collaborating with springsteen , along with his wife patti_scialfa and her childhood friend soozie_tyrell , who in turn is shapiro 's sister . show will tour 60 american cities .
 prosecutors agree to give limited immunity to james_j_smith , retired fbi agent , protecting him from charges that he may have improperly kept at his home in los_angeles 14 videotapes and 47 journals chronicling 12 years of debriefing with katrina_leung , his longtime informant and lover , who is now suspected of being chinese agent . will still be able to use any admissions or evidence found in material against smith . leung 's lawyers say deal is further evidence that smith is receiving preferential treatment . prosecutors say they are considering new and potentially more serious charges against both smith and leung .
 star jones_reynolds announces her departure from the view . decision for jones reynolds to no longer be part of talk show actually came six months prior when abc executives decided not to renew her contract , which expires at end of summer . she surprised her co-hosts by announcing that she was leaving show day earlier than agreed upon date . rosie_o'donnell will join show in september .
 ralph_phillips , car thief and burglar , escaped from erie_county , ny , jail in april with only four days left on 90-day sentence for violating his parole . phillips , seneca_indian , has become something of local folk hero , despite huge manhunt that intensified after state trooper was shot and wounded . police have doubled reward for information leading to phillips ' arrest , to $ 50,000 .
 selma , ala , becomes proxy battle between sens_barak_obama and hillary_rodham_clinton as two rivals for democratic presidential nomination make deeply personal appeals to voters in sanctuaries of city 's black churches and then join former pres bill clinton for march across bridge where white police officers beat protesters , most of them black , in 1965 . political theater of two campaigns overlap repeatedly during day , but with polite tone that contrasts with their political skirmishing of recent weeks .
 insurgent attacks in ramadi have intensified in past two weeks as american attention has focused on falluja . american troops in ramadi are now subject to more-organized attacks by insurgents , but biggest threat remains improvised explosive devices . gunmen shoot at troops from city 's largest mosque . raids on mosques have turned up weapons and propaganda . army suspects up to 150 foreign fighters are in ramadi , some having come from falluja .
 study based at harlem_hospital_center , new_york_city , finds 25.5 percent of children in central harlem_have_asthma , double expected rate and one of highest ever documented for american neighborhood . sought to test every child under 13 who lives or goes to school in 24-block area . project head dr stephen_nicholas says findings suggest widespread blanket testing might show rates are much higher than suspected in number of inner-city neighborhoods around nation .
 police ride into deadly insurgent ambushes near baquba , iraq , resulting in two intense battles that leave at least 42 people dead , including 24 police officers . five american_service members are killed in anbar province , raising american death toll in oct to at least 96 , one of worst monthly tolls of war . americans say ambush near baquba might have been coordinated with help of insurgent agent working inside government 's security forces .
 comment on negotiations between gillette chairman and chief executive james_m_kilts and procter_&_gamble chief executive alan g lafley that led to agreement to merge their companies . kilts approached lafley in november with idea of merger that would combine his company , world 's biggest marketer of products to men , with an industry giant that understands women . procter says it will buy gillette for about about $ 57 billion in stock .
 richard_george talks about his 18-year battle with government and private developers to protect three streets of beachside bungalows , including his own , in rockaway , queens . bungalows , built in 1920 's , comprise one of largest privately owned parcels of undeveloped land left on oceanfront in rockwaay . they also comprise one of largest remnants of rockaway 's history as new_york 's seaside resort for city 's lower and middle classes .
 james atlas comment on us military adventure in iraq as nothing less than defense_of_western_civilization , school of thought that stems from late_university_of_chicago_political scientist leo_strauss , whose disciples are prominent in bush administration . ` myth ' of strauss derives from allan_bloom 's 1987 book the closing of the american mind , which argued that greek democracy reprsented highest form of civilization . agenda became politicized by cohort of ambitious men like paul_wolfowitz , richard_n_perle , william_kristol .
 pres bush offers new information on what he says was foiled plot by al_qaeda in 2002 to fly hijacked plane into us bank tower in los_angeles , tallest building west of mississippi . speech to national_guard_assn discloses more details of account made public four months ago . photo . counterterrorism aide frances_fragos_townsend makes no claim that national_security_agency 's eavesdropping helped foil plot but does not rule out program as factor .
 vice pres dick_cheney , in beijing for round of talks with china 's top leaders , is urged to reduce united_states arms sales to taiwan to lessen risk of confict across taiwan strait . american and chinese officials say that talks will focus mainly on taiwan and on north_korea 's nuclear program .
 purchases of mutual funds made up of fixed-income securities that can be converted to common stock have surged recently , as individual investors look for ways to limit losses in volatile stock market . funds give investors some income and less exposure to falling stock prices than stock funds . got $ 846 million in net cash in 2002 , ending year with $ 8.1 billion in total assets , and gained added $ 339 million in 2003 first_quarter .
 los_angeles , calif , city_council 's rejection of mayor james_k_hahn 's proposed $ 5.1 billion budget for coming fiscal year is seen as retaliation against hahn and police chief william_j_bratton , who wanted to hire 320 new police officers . bratton infuriated council by suggesting it was jeopardizing citizenry and leaving police officers vulnerable and council president alex_padilla , who led revolt against hahn 's budget , called bratton 's suggestion offensive .
 bipartisan majority of senate_commerce_committee indicates that it would vote to overturn some of media ownership rules adopted by federal_communications_commission , reversing one of most significant deregulatory steps undertaken by bush administration . republican commissioners who voted in favor of dismantling regulatory rules face hostile questioning from both democratic and republican_committee members . hundreds of thousands of comments posted by individuals and diverse range of organizations provide credence and momentum to critics of fcc changes .
 arts briefing column : about 100,000 fans line streets of wellington , nz , for premiere of return of the king , final film in lord of the rings trilogy directed by peter_jackson . heinz family foundation will bestow heinz award for art and humanities on playwright august wilson at ceremony in pittsburgh . brazilian novelist rubem_fonseca wins 2003 juan rulfocq literature prize .
 several republican senators devise plan to offer sen trent_lott , who has lost his job as leader , chairmanship of senate rules and administration_committee , position with few policy duties but one with significant jurisdiction over organization of senate . sen rick_santorum was in line for post , but plans to step aside while maintaining his role as senate 's no . 3 republican .
 author thurston_clarke op-ed article contends that praise for pres john f kennedy 's 1961 inaugural address came from across political spectrum and was so extravagant it seems hard to believe nation was even more divided than it is now . notes that kennedy had won 1960 election with only 49.7 percent of popular vote , yet gallup poll taken soon after his inauguration showed him with approval rating of 72 percent .
 developer frank_j_sciame has put apartments planned for ultraluxury condominium tower in lower manhattan on market without guarantee of construction financing . units are being sold from $ 29 million to $ 59 million , requiring down payments starting at $ 7 million with no guarantee that structure will ever be built . despite highly unusual strategy , sciame is confident that selling units first will result in better rates and terms from eventual lender . actor hank_azaria buys soho loft from photographer cindy_sherman for $ 4.75 million . cartoonist ranan_r_lurie sells two of his four apartments in trump tower for $ 6.3 million .
 amateur gardener form pacific_northwest_horticultural_conservancy in effort to purchase and preserve heronswood gardens in kingston , wash , which w atlee_burpee_&_co , owner since 2000 , has now closed to visitors and placed on market for $ 9 million . burpee offers to sell property to group for $ 4.5 million . will have hard time rebuilding its image in region , where it has been vilified as shameful , deceitful , greedy and inept .
 china has become massive magnet inexorably drawing scrap metal from across asia . market forces are cleaning up asian landscapes that have been long littered with soviet-era junk . steel is lifeblood of china 's booming economy . china 's steel production is to nearly double during rest of decade . china 's iron ore production is forecast to remain flat . china is signing long-term multibillion-dollar supply contracts with australian and brazilian mining companies . china 's scrap imports have almost doubled since 2000 .
 justice alan d marrus sentences virginia_randall_whitaker to one to three years in prison for tampering with evidence and hindering murder prosecution . whitaker was convicted last month after police discovered bullet-ridden body of shawn_williams , who had been missing for 13 years , in her former backyard in brooklyn . inference is that whitaker 's son james_dwayne_brown , who fled to egypt and can not be extradited , committed murder .
 long island pine barrens society releases report that estimates it will cost $ 3 billion over next several years to acquire final 35,000 acres earmarked for preservation . says state , county and town land acquisitions on long_island averaged 2,274 acres a year over last seven years . says government needs to coordinate programs better and streamline appraisals and negotiations before farmland and open space run out .
 article on teenage volunteer emergency workers in new_york metropolitan area . vast majority of teens have received certification in one of first two levels of emergency service training . training at summer session at emergency_medical_services_institute_at_stamford_hospital in connecticut and scene at darien_emergency_services_post 53 volunteer_ambulance_corps , which has 58 members ranging from 14-year-old candidates to 17 - and 18-year-old crew chiefs , described .
 federal reserve raises federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks to 2.75 percent from 2.5 percent . restates its intention to keep raising rates at ` measured ' pace in months ahead . says it sees rising inflationary pressures , setting off alarms in stock and bond markets that it might drive up interest rates faster than expected . implies it might have to take tougher monetary policy action to keep risks to inflation and growth roughly equal . dow jones industrial average and nasdaq both drop by 0.9 percent and yield on 10-year treasury bonds jump to 4.64 percent from 4.47 . commerce_department reports producer price index rose 0.4 percent in feb , compared with jan gain of 0.8 percent . federal funds target rate graph .
 david_leonhardt article contends that new_england patriots coach bill_belichick , who majored in economics at wesleyan_university , approaches his job way financial analyst pores over balance sheet . notes that belichick , whose team will play carolina_panthers in super_bowl , has read academic paper by university_of_california prof david_romer that was analysis of whether professional football teams punt more often than is rational .
 david_leonhardt column on referendums in arizona , colorado , missouri , montana , ohio and nevada to raise minimum wage . says higher minimum wage is not most effective way to fight poverty , because some minimum wage jobs are held by middle-class teenagers . holds current batch of initiatives is not perfect . holds congress and state legislatures have yet to come up with better solution to poverty , and voters may not be willing to wait for perfection .
 rep bob_ney , first member of congress to confess to crimes involving corrupt lobbyist jack_abramoff , has defied house leaders by refusing to step down for now , even though he is headed to prison early next year . his congressional office is open for business . ney has said he would resign within ` few weeks ' but wants to remain in congress for sake of his staff . ney , despite criminal record , will be able to begin collecting congressional pension when he turns 62 .
 profile of tackhead , former hip-hop_house band for sugar hill records made up of drummer keith_leblanc , bassist doug_wimbish and guitarist skip mcdonald . trio , who joined forces in hartford , conn , 25 years ago and have played both collectively and individually on hit albums and tours with many in musical elite , have moved to new headquarters in downtown hartford .
 lebanese opposition parties gain ground in struggle to push aside pro-syrian government , as both prime min omar_karami and intelligence chief gen raymond_azar indicate they will step aside . photo . opposition leader gebran_tueni reports assurance from un envoy terje_roed_larsen that syria says troop withdrawal will be completed before end of may . syria confirms pledge to un sec gen kofi_annan .
 us census bureau reports that new_york_city lost 5,547 residents last year , bringing its population to 8,104,079 as of last july 1 . last recorded population drop in city in 1991 . city will challenge figures , which are used to help allocate federal housing assistance and low-income tax credits , among other things .
 california gov arnold_schwarzenegger announces deal with lytton band of pomo indians authorizing construction of casino in san_francisco_bay area town of san_pablo . agreement would create third largest casino in nation , and largest in an urban area . is one of five gaming agreements announced by schwarzenegger , which together will generate estimated $ 200 million in state revenue . critics express outrage that schwarzenegger would agree to such a big casino along one of state 's most congested urban corriders and concern that casino gambling is being used to solve state 's budget problems .
 dave_anderson sports of the times_column discusses 1983 draft in which quarterback john_elway made it known that he did not want to be chosen by baltimore colts and was later traded to denver_broncos . this year , no. 1 pick quarterback eli_manning said he did not want to play for san_diego_chargers and was traded to new_york_giants .
 big sport utility vehicle sales continued to grow last year as buyers sought smaller-size models , but sales of larger suv 's appear to have reached plateau . ford motor co analysts say that for first time in decade , sales growth of full-size pickup trucks outpaced growth of suv 's over all . ward 's autoinfobank data show sales of full-size pickups rose 6.6 percent last year from 2003 , compared with overall suv sales growth of 4.3 percent .
 general electric reports third-quarter net earnings fell 11 percent , to $ 3.65 billion , compared with $ 4.09 billion in 2002 period . says full-year earnings will be at lowest range of analysts ' estimates . chief executive jeffrey_r_immelt says new acquisitions position ge for long-term , high-value growth . ge plans to aquire amersham , british medical company , and make its chief executive , sir william_castell , ge vice chairman and board member .
 revenue from commercials on broadcast networks could fall short from record set last spring . six broadcast networks last spring set record for total revenue , estimated at $ 9.3 billin , by taking in as much as 15 percent more money in advance-sales bazaar , known as upfront market , than they had in previous spring . broadcasters will end up at best flat , or more likely fall short of their total last spring by $ 100 million to $ 300 million as they wrap up selling commercial time before start of 2004-5 season .
 article on rev sebastian_obermaier , 70-year-old roman catholic priest and native of bavaria who has spent 27 years in el_alto , bolivia , designing , building and raising funds for collection of more than 80 whimsical , brightly colored , churches . obermaier , who has never studied architecture and improvises from rough sketches , says he believes churches will help put town , just nine miles from la paz , on map by attracting crowds of tourists .
 about 30 residents of newark rally at city hall to demand response from mayor sharpe james about eight recent murders of young people . say james is minimizing violence and other officials are indifferent . four people were murdered execution style on dec 14 in separate incidents . on nov_26 , bodies of three men and a woman were found executed in vacant lot .
 viktor schreckengost , prolific master designer responsible for hundreds of iconic 20th-century innovations , is marking 100th birthday , still living and working in his cleveland heights home . foundation created by family to preserve his work organizes exhibitions at 130 sites across country . new-york historical society displays punch bowl sold at sotheby 's in 2004 for $ 254,400 . schreckengost worked as independent industrial designer for dozens of companies and holds more than 100 patents .
 brooklyn museum of art announces that it will close for two weeks in august , casualty of city 's proposed budget cuts to cultural institutions . closing will save $ 250,000 . mayor michael_r_bloomberg announces emergency effort by city 's public libraries to raise $ 36 million in private support for books , materials and core services during economic downturn .
 american and colombian officials say cocaine remains as available as ever on american streets even after five-year , $ 3 billion operation that eradicated million acres of coca plants in colombia . say colombian traffickers still provide 90 percent of cocaine used in united_states and 50 percent of heroin , just as before . say prices have remained stable and purity has improved . theories abound on reason for disparity between record eradication numbers and availability estimates , and on how to deal with it .
 joshua_rivera continues to serve time for murder , two years after two witnesses named real killer . his case is reminder that criminal justice system , by law and custom , generally resists reopening of jury verdicts , at times even in face of new evidence that seems strong . it is also vivid example of discretion that prosecutors can exercise in not only bringing cases but also reviewing their outcomes . rivera was sentenced to 37 years in prison for 1992 murder of leonard_aquino and wounding of paul_peralta in woodside , queens . jaime acevedo told authorities he inadvertently drove getaway car for two men he knew only by their nicknames , and that rivera was not on scene at time of shootings . case reviewed .
 the week column . nassau_county expects to save as much as $ 25,000 this year by switching to re-refined motor oil in its public vehicles rather than virgin motor oil and hydraulic fluids . suffolk county planning department issues report showing that retail space has more than tripled since 1970 but urges cautious approach to more than seven million square feet of additional space that has been proposed . long island voters approve 15 of 18 school budgets during revotes , significantly reducing number of districts that will have to resort to austerity budgets .
 new_york mets fire manager art_howe , effective at end of 2004 season . mets will pay howe $ 4.7 million for two remaining years on contract . howe had 129-178 record as manager of mets . mets owner fred_wilpon defends much-maligned chain of command , insisting that general manager jim_duquette has had freedom to do his job , in response to criticism that mets chief operating officer and wilpon 's son jeff holds counterproductive amount of clout .
 us military officials discover house in falluja that apparently was compound of jordanian militant abu musab_al-zarqawi . say weeklong offensive has broken back of insurgency , although gun battles and mortar fire continue and it may be some time before iraqi civilians may return . assaults continue across sunni areas and baghdad . photos . map . marine and iraqi soldier are killed clearing building in falluja . at least 51 americans have been killed and 425 wounded since offensive began . cnn video shows al qaeda slogan and weapons inside suspected zarqawi compound , where insurgents fought fierce battle . 63 policemen from karbala who trained in jordan may have been kidnapped near border .
 bush administration and its republican allies in congress signal new willingness to work with democrats to try to secure their support for pending trade deals with panama , peru and colombia . focus of talks is guarantees for rights of workers in countries with which us has negotiated trade accords , including ban on child labor and forced labor . rep charles_b_rangel , chairman of house_ways_and_means_committee , and rep jim_mccrery , rangel 's republican counterpart on ways_and_means_panel , offer different views on situation .
 new crop of private airlines are among earliest and most tangible fruits of economic growth in india . airline passenger traffic grew by 50 percent last_year , and civil_aviation_ministry projects growth of at least 20 percent a year for next 10 years . this has provided job opportunities for young indian women . estimated 40,000 cabin crew staff members are expected to be needed in next three to four years . starting salaries are relatively high , requiring only high school degree . private training schools are proliferating .
 residents and shop owners in astoria , sunnyside and woodside sections of queens are reminded of blackout of summer_of 2006 by report issued by new_york_state_public_utilities_comm that is critical of consolidated_edison_co ` mishandling ' of emergency . commission outlines what it sees as con ed 's mistakes , which prolonged blackout for nine days . many shops took large financial losses , while residents lost food and light .
 china 's apple growers are content with growing apples for export despite depressed market . even deeply depressed market is preferable to what farmers suffered through for decades , when they could not expect to make even $ 1 per day selling crops to local markets . after china opened its agriculture to broader export market in 1980 's , chinese farmers started growing apples . china produces 1.5 billion bushels of apples per year -- about half world 's supply , and nearly seven times american production of about 215 million bushels per year . china is working to improve productivity of its relatively low-yielding orchards .
 michael c skakel seeks new trial , citing evidence that two bronx youths , friends of former skakel_classmate_gitano_bryant , bludgeoned martha_moxley to death in greenwich , conn , in 1975 . bryant remained silent until 2001 , when he told sreenwriter tres mills of incident . mills incorporated it into script that he sent to skakel 's lawyer , prosecutor and victim 's mother , all of whom discounted it . mills read article by robert_f_kennedy_that_defended_skakel and contacted him .
 kurt_c_claywell , electrical contractor and two-time felon , tells connecticut and federal investigators that he gave gov john_g_rowland thousands of dollars worth of cuban cigars and french wine so he could turn to rowland and his aides for help when disputes arose with state agencies . says he even once called on rowland 's office to help him obtain variance for his lakefront property in massachusetts . produces thank-you note for gifts from rowland aide who wrote massachusetts authorities on behalf of claywell .
 officials from nasa and boeing co are looking into space shuttle columbia 's 1999 overhaul , which took twice as long -lrb- 17 months -rrb- and cost twice as much -lrb- $ 145 million -rrb- as expected . so far , overhaul has not been implicated in columbia 's destruction . boeing executives were quoted in aug 2000 as saying they found more than 3,500 problems in columbia 's wiring , several times that of other orbiters . extra time and money were mainly caused by detailed inspections and repairs of wiring . overhaul described .
 journalist david_halberstam , who died april 23 , reported for the new_york_times during vietnam war , forcefully dispatching articles that revealed reality in vietnam that bore little resemblance to upbeat accounts offered by american politicians and military . his journalism set precedent for skepticism of official war-time pronouncements that is seen in current reporting of iraq war . journalists in iraq are often accused by bush administration of only reporting bad news . halberstam faced similar criticism during vietnam war .
 profile of ethiopian woman hiwot_taddessa , who was chosen at random along with five other pregnant women around globe in world health organization campaign to highlight dangers of pregnancy and childbirth and huge disparities in medical care worldwide from richest to poorest countries . 17-year-old hiwot is unmarried and , statistically speaking , in group at greatest risk . other women being tracked are in britain , bolivia , egypt , india and laos .
 editorial -lrb- fixing albany -rrb- holds new_york state legislature is controlled by assembly speaker sheldon_silver , senate majority leader joseph_bruno and gov george_pataki . lists things not done , half-done or done to detriment of new yorkers by state legislature this year . calls on gov george_pataki to veto special pork barrel package embedded in $ 101 billion budget .
 homeowners in new_york_city fighting to keep up with mortgage payments are helped by strong real estate market and protective state laws that help keep many from foreclosure . new_york is one of 10 states that require foreclosures to pass through court system , giving homeowners as much as 445 days to regroup financially , negotiate with lender or sell home . court filings show that pre-foreclosure , which occurs when several mortgage payments have been missed , is climbing . number of new_york_city residents who have missed at least three successive mortgage payments rose 13 percent in first_three_months_of 2007 compared to same period year earlier . city resources for homeowners having trouble making mortgage payments listed .
 max boot op-ed on escalating violence in iraq sees no comparison with vietnam , where us faced more than one million enemy combatants backed up by china and russia . says lesson from vietnam is not to deal with insurgency by staging big-unit sweeps with fancy code names , but through targeted counterinsurgency programs like those used effectively in vietnam .
 al baker news analysis discusses new_york state governor george_e_pataki , who is often counted on to publicly support president george_w_bush administration and war in iraq . notes that new_york state was only awarded $ 64 million of $ 725 million to help new_york_city fight terrorism . small amount is largely seen as evidence that pataki 's influence in bush administration is not great .
 scientists from mystic_aquarium and sea world in san_antonio artificially inseminate 24-year-old beluga whale kela at mystic facility with sperm from whale_named_nanuk . sea world veterinarian todd_robeck says it is first time procedure has been tried on beluga whale . it will take 40 to 60 days before aquarium knows whether procedure was successful .
 selena roberts sports of the times_column discusses potential rain out that could postpone game 3 of american league championship series between new_york_yankees and boston_red_sox . extra day would give red_sox pitcher pedro_martinez more rest before pitching in game 5 , which he will do in place of injured curt_schilling .
 article on scene at sunny_atlantic_beach_club in atlantic_beach , ny , on nassau_county 's south shore , where cabana units and lockers are rented to about 1,000 members each summer . focuses on club 's 18-member cabana crew as they work , mostly for tips , to cater to members ' wants and needs . cabana crews work at public and private beaches scattered across long_island sound , jersey shore and westchester_county .
 op-ed article by eric_schlosser says bush administration 's war on marijuana is monumental waste of money and source of pointless misery . says canada 's national_health_service has devised pilot project to sell marijuana for medicinal purposes in british_columbia , and governments of spain , italy , portugal , netherlands and belgium have decriminalized marijuana . says denying relatively safe , potentially useful medicine to patients is irrational and cruel .
 nicholas_hytner , artistic director of london 's national theater , says slashing cost of tickets in largest of its three auditoriums to 10 pounds -lrb- about $ 18 -rrb- a ticket has increased attendance rate to average of 95 percent . notes many theatergoers are first-time buyers . theater executives in london and new_york agree program would not succeed on broadway , where productions typically cost millions of dollars .
 op-ed article by prof mark c taylor says jacques_derrida , who died last week , will be remembered as one of three most important philosophers of 20th_century , along with ludwig_wittgenstein and martin_heidegger . says no thinker in last 100 years has had greater impact on people in more fields and different disciplines than derrida , and no thinker has been more deeply misunderstood . explains what he meant by deconstruction .
 the week column . group of residents in gordon_heights section of brookhaven , ny , complaining that fire-protection taxes are higher there than in other fire districts , petitions town board to dissolve district altogether . glen cove mayor ralph_suozzi asks state to send annual aid check early and is taking other measures in effort to help cover $ 6.6 million budget shortfall . long island_university spokesman paola curcio-kleinman attributes delay in sale of southampton_college_campus_to_state_university_of_new_york at stony_brook to paperwork .
 judge james_g_troiano refuses to release wesley_murphy , teenager who is accused of assault in death of seven-year-old faheem_williams , who body was discovered in newark , nj , basement . two disparate birth certificates leave court puzzled as to murphy 's relationship to williams . murphy is being held at juvenile detention center pending hearing on march 4 .
 essie_mae_washington-williams , 78-year-old retired teacher from los_angeles , says she is daughter of late sen strom_thurmond and his family 's black maid . makes announcement in columbia , sc , where thurmond was legendary political figure and , for decades , adamant segregationist . says she never sought to harm thurmonds , who acknowledge tie , but needed to tell her own four children and now feels ` completely free ' . photos . thurmond had what williams calls ` affair ' with her mother , carrie_butler , when she was 16 and he was 22-year-old teacher . statement confirms longtime rumors about woman who visited thurmond in his washington office and was supported by him throughout the years .
 about 200 parishioners from st_dominic_roman_catholic_church in oyster_bay , ny , attend meeting at brookville reformed church to discuss leadership abilities of monsignor john_alesandro over issue of sexual abuse by priests in diocese of rockville_centre . alesandro disputes assertion that he did not intervene after former parishioner john_salveson reported repeated sexual abuse by rev robert_huneke .
 former new_york_city councilman sheldon_s_leffler is indicted on charges of using illegal fund-raising tactics during his failed 2001 campaign for queens borough president . many government veterans are suprised because of leffler 's longstanding reputation for scrupulous honesty . indictment says leffler conspired with rita_stark to defraud city of $ 40,000 by her contributing $ 10,000 to his campaign in small amounts in names of others without their knowledge , and then seeking matching funds from city .
 crowd of 120,000 people in tel aviv rallies to support israeli prime min ariel_sharon 's plan for unilateral withdrawal from gaza in rare display of support for conservative government from marginalized left . sharon 's own likud party rejected plan in referendum two weeks ago . shimon perez of center-left labor_party says 80 percent of israelis support plan and will not allow one percent of population represented by likud dissenters to derail it .
 colorado has worst outbreak of west nile virus in nation this year , as rainy spring and hotter-than-average summmer provide foothold for disease-bearing mosquitoes . state recorded its first case of west nile only last year . seven deaths from disease have been attributed to west_nile in colorado this year , while only four other fatal cases were reported nationwide . there have been 388 suspected cases , and high season for infections is not expected until late this month .
 st louis cardinals outfielder albert_pujols , who finished second in home run derby at all star game , could accomplish one of baseball 's rarest feats if he wins triple crown . leads national league in batting average , is third in homers and second in rbis . boston_red_sox player carl_yastrzemski was last person to win triple crown in 1967 .
 iraq staggers through another day of violence and instability . guerrillas shoot down apache helicopter in habbaniya . two iraqi civilians are killed by american soldiers who open fire during anti-americans protest in falluja . four relatives of izzat ibrahim_al-douri , saddam_hussein 's former vice president and the most wanted fugitive in iraq , are arrested in samarra .
 holland_cotter reviews blue-themed art shows , including blue at american folk art museum in nyc , works from permanent collections at metropolitan museum of art and newark museum , ceramics from iraq and china at smithsonian 's arthur m sackler_gallery , fiber art at wadsworth_atheneum_museum_of_art , early italian art at gardner_museum in boston and graffiti 207 : art , medicine and design at pediatrics 2000 in manhattan .
 intel announces that its directors had affirmed selection of company president , paul_s_otellini , as chief executive . otellini will be first nonengineer to lead company . intel announces that craig_r_barrett , chief executive , will take over in may as intel chairman , position now held by andrew s grove . grove will leave board after 30 years . otellini photo .
 pinkberry 's tartly flavored frozen yogurt continues to draw crowds and generate controversy in west_hollywood , calif , particularly among neighbors angry about illegally parked cars and litter . competitors pop up across town and expand beyond . pinkberry is also expanding , opening nine new stores in los_angeles_county and three in new_york . red mango , south korean company , claims that it was inspiration for pinkberry .
 ecuador 's voters appear to be split between alvaro_noboa , banana magnate who favors close ties to united_states , and rafael_correa , leftist who is admirer of venezuela 's hugo_chavez . based on early election returns , two men are likely to face runoff . noboa , whose strong showing came as surprise , says he will limit political ties to venezuela . correa says his campaign might have suffered from fraud in electronic systems used to count votes .
 sept 11 terror attack on new_york_city is expected to play prominent role at first republican_national_convention ever held in city . convention will begin with elaborate tribute to 9/11 victims . former mayor rudolph_giuliani will speak , reminding voters of pres bush 's role in leading nation after attacks . 9/11 invocations begin even before convention opens . vice pres dick_cheney , attending rally on ellis_island , recalls bush 's visit to ground zero three days after attack . party officials expect potentially tumultuous and politically complicated week . bush 's goal will be to broaden his appeal to center after months of cultivating his conservative base , while other party members seize on demonstrations outside to portray democrats as extremist and sen john_kerry as out of mainstream . like democrats at their convention , tensions between republican moderates and conseratives over several issues are easing out of desire of both wings to ensure bush 's re-election .
 about 400 families in east_baltimore are awaiting relocation as workers clear part of 100-acre site for $ 1.4 billion project that will convert once-blighted neighborhood into biotechnology center linked to johns_hopkins hospital . project will also include 2,200 new and renovated housing units and generate 6,000 jobs and millions of dollars in tax revenue for city and state . east baltimore_development_inc , nonprofit organization , is in charge of project .
 nasa officials say ken_thornsley , nasa photography editor at kennedy_space_center , has repeatedly raised concerns about contractor producing substandard film images of shuttle launches . blurry images of columbia 's liftoff jan 16 hindered efforts to assess damage to left wing . johnson controls and computer sciences raytheon are paid about $ 189,000 per launch , and knew before columbia mission that telescope controlling cameras was not working correctly .
 seven private underwriting firms who were commissioned by metropolitan_transportation_authority to sell $ 14 billion in bonds and several leading new_york state political figures who wield influence over mta benefited greatly from sale of bonds . bonds generated estimated $ 85 million in commissions and fees to underwriters , lawyers and financial advisers . underwriters paid more than $ 3 million to consultants , among them three men with ties to gov george_e_pataki , who appoints mta chairman . firms hired by mta gave at least $ 1.1 million to state political funds since 2000 , when decision to borrow money was announced . most of $ 14 billion raised in bonds goes to pay off existing bonds .
 estimated 1.5 million former convicts are unable to vote in 14 states because of policies making process cumbersome and confusing . issue became contentious in florida in 2000 election and again in 2004 . supreme court has declined to consider differing interpretations by appellate courts , but sens_barbara_boxer and hillary_clinton are among democratic sponsors of legislation to restore voting rights to former convicts .
 local governments in southern louisiana and mississippi can not afford to fix their public works systems 19 months after hurricane katrina , and billions of dollars in recovery assistance promised by federal government have only started to trickle to region . officials blame federal law for failure to invest in public works . it imposes requirements for receiving money that many towns and parishes say they can not meet . federal emergency management agency says that it has paid louisiana $ 2.83 billion to pass on to local governments , but that state has distributed only $ 1.28 billion .
 wildlife conservation society stocks bronx_river with 201 herring it hopes will spawn for centuries to come . is first time in 350 years that bronx has seen herring in local waters . event is part of effort led by rep jose_e_serrano , who has steered more than $ 15 million in federal funds for bronx_river 's rebirth .
 most experts see north_korea 's efforts to expand its nuclear arsenal as grave security threat . fear nation , currently thought to have one or two nuclear bombs , is putting itself on fast track to producing six or seven bombs , with means to produce more every year . expansion poses threat to united_states and its allies and raises risk that north_korea could sell fissile material on black market and spur nonnuclear nations in region to build own bombs . reasons why bush administration plays down threat discussed .
 andrew_ross_sorkin dealbook column on verbal war being waged by legg_mason_capital_management chief executive william_miller 3rd against mci board for accepting takeover offer from verizon rather than more lucrative but potentially more risky one from qwest . miller , one of qwest 's largest shareholders , has lost some $ 300 million in qwest investment . ultimately , mci may accept higher bid -- from verizon .
 fifteen new_orleans artists displaced by hurricane katrina are sharing loft space in tribeca , aided by stipends from lower_manhattan_cultural_council and by new_york galleries that have invited them to show work . photos of vidho lorville and chris_jahncke . group includes brooklyn-born christopher_saucedo who lost firefighter brother gregory in sept 11 attack on world trade center . he reports that brother 's flashlight survived both attack and hurricane .
 federal emergency management agency is stumbling in its efforts to provide temporary housing for victims of hurricane katrina , which left hundreds of thousands of people homeless . has signed contracts for more than $ 2 billion in temporary housing , including more than 120,000 trailers and mobile homes , but has placed just 100 louisiana families in those homes . inspector general for homeland_security_dept says fema is freezing many orders for trailers , although agency disputes that . members of congress , complaining that $ 236 million to lease three ships to house evacuees is far too expensive , call for investigation .
 peoplesoft warns investors that second-quarter earnings will be worse than expected , blaming oracle_corp 's relentless takeover bid for damage to its business . chief executive craig_conway attributes expected weak results to widespread publicity surrounding oracle 's monthlong antitrust trial , which adjourned july 1 and will resume with closing arguments july 20 .
 fbi agents and police detectives begin tearing up vacant lot on brooklyn-queens border that is reputed mob dumping ground . are looking for bodies of john_favara , queens man who disappeared in july 1980 after he accidentally ran over and killed john_gotti 's 12-year-old son , and philip_giaccone and dominic_trinchera , mafia figures shot to death on may 5_, 1981 .
 securities fraud trial of cendant_corp former chairman walter_a_forbes and former vice chairman e kirk_shelton opens in hartford , conn . two former executives are accused of defrauding investors and lying to regulators . forbes is also accused of insider trading for selling $ 11 million in company stock before price plunged .
 jennifer_steinhauer analysis of mayor_michael_r_bloomberg 's plan to exert tighter control over new_york_city 's public schools and his bold decision to stake his record on education of city 's children . notes that bloomberg , who until now has expressed almost no opinion on most of issues that dominate_national_education_debate , has now laid out his priorities in clear and at times striking detail , such as his insistence that kindergartners through third graders will focus on phonics , will receive minimum of 135 minutes of daily literacy instruction and be taught an hour of math a day .
 rappers jay-z , outkast and pharrell_williams of neptunes and r_&_b_singer_beyonce_each_garner six grammy nominations . warren_zevon , george_harrison , june carter cash , rosemary_clooney and celia_cruz receive posthumous nominations . luther vandross , who is recovering from stroke , receives five nominations , including one for song of the year for dance with my father .
 charities are increasingly turning to black-tie benefit auctions , using donated items , as fund-raising tool of choice . more bidders are getting shot at luxury at bargain prices as benefit auctions proliferate , and their offerings turn more elaborate to entice buyers . national auctioneers assn says live auction sales over all climbed to $ 240 billion in us last year , up 11 percent from 2004 . benefit auction specialists says business is up about 40 percent from three years ago , with its average total per sale nearing $ 200,000 .
 prime min silvio_berlusconi and many other celebrities attend grand reopening of teatro_alla_scala in milan after nearly three years of renovation . opening-night performance of antonio salieri 's long-forgotten opera_europa_riconosciuta , commissioned for house 's original opening in 1778 , is met by thousands of protesters opposing expenditure of public funds at time of high unemployment and government cutbacks .
 article on increasing number of homeowners in new_york metropolitan area who are using trellises , arbors and pergolas to grow plants vertically and thus give structure to their yards . carolyn_summers of hastings-on-hudson , who is growing plants on deer fence and arbor and has trained pear trees on 12-foot-high espalier , steve_kottage who has arbor outside his house in weston , conn , and others comment .
 new_york_city police seize native american war club after keven_hiebert spots it on bay and recognizes it as one that was stolen from kauffman_museum in north_newton , kan , in may 1994 . martin_lane , new_york dealer who put war club on ebay , says he bought it at orlando antique show in 1994 or 1995 and had no idea it had been stolen .
 profile of and interview with cheryl_rogowski , 43 , of pine_island , ny , first ever farmer to win macarthur_fellowship , better known as ` genius award , ' administered by john_d and catherine_t_macarthur_foundation . fellowship comes with $ 500,000 no-strings-attached prize . rogowski , who , with family , has been diversifying crops at w rogowski farm since 1983 , sells directly to immigrants in brooklyn and provides english classes on farm to spanish-speaking workers .
 family and friends of chai_soua_vang , hunter charged with murdering six other hunters and wounding two in wisconsin last week , say vang is hmong shaman who has called on spirit world in trances that last up to three hours . a friend and former hunting companion contends that vang seeks ` the other world ' when he tries to cure sick people or invoke divine protection for those who request it . case reviewed .
 federal reserve chairman , alan_greenspan , comes under increased pressure to reduce interest rates when fed 's monetary policy committee meets on march 18 . drumbeat of bad news -- loss of 308,000 jobs in february , greater-than-expected slump in retail sales and surge in oil prices to nearly $ 40 a barrel before easing back -- has heightened fears that economy is suffering from more than just war jitters and has increased speculation among investors that fed may lower interest rates . greenspan photo .
 article on major exhibition on malcolm x , onetime nation of islam leader who was assassinated in new_york_city on february 21_, 1965 , that is set to open at new_york public library 's schomburg_center_for_research in black culture . for his family , exhibition represents end to public struggle over ownership of malcolm x 's personal effects , some of which had been auctioned in 2002 and later reclaimed . malcolm x 's daughter , ilyasha_shabazz , and exhibition curator cheryll_greene comment .
 second article in series china 's reach , on china 's rising power in asia-pacific region . examines china 's big push to market itself and its language across southeast_asia and pacific , similar to way united_states promoted its culture and values during cold war . young asians particularly are eager to cement cultural bonds as china deepens its economic and political interest in region . more and more southeast asians are traveling to china . tourists from china 's rapidly expanding middle class are becoming dominant tourist group in region , carrying with them image of vastly different and more inviting china than even just few years ago .
 plea talks in enron case said to unravel * * plea negotiations collapse between federal prosecutors and enron_corp 's former chief financial officer andrew_s_fastow and his wife lea following rejection of proposed terms by presiding judge_david_hittner . fastow faces 98 counts of fraud , and his wife is charged with concealing illegal income from internal_revenue_service . possible loss of fastow 's testimony could undermine prosecution 's case against other enron executives .
 several hundred american soldiers gather at former iraqi_air_base in al asad to say farewell to 15 comrades who died after their helicopter was struck by missile . memorial comes on day when two more soldiers are killed in iraq and , for first time , member of poland 's forces is killed .
 government seizes about 800 horses being grazed on federal land in nevada by carrie and mary_dann , elderly western shoshone indian sisters who for 30 years have defied federal complaints that they are illegally grazing their cattle and horses on public land . sisters contend shoshones never legally ceded land to government . authorities handle this roundup less aggressively than they did roundup of sisters ' cattle in september 2002 .
 prospective presidential candidates sens_hillary_clinton and john_mccain face intense scrutiny of their views following pres bush 's decision to send thousands of more troops to iraq . clinton is viewed with suspicion by democratic party for not explicitly repudiating her october 2002 vote authorizing military action against iraq . mccain may face challenges from fellow republicans for his strong support of war and bush 's plan . mccain flaunts his unpopular position , while clinton is more circumspect as she tries to deal with barrage of conflicting pressures .
 iraqi officials say syria captured and handed over saddam_hussein 's half-brother , sabawi_ibrahim_al-hassan_al-tikriti , who is accused of playing leading role in organizing and financing insurgency that has tormented iraq since hussein 's overthrow nearly two years ago . hassan was once widely feared head of iraq 's two most powerful security agencies . syrian officials confirm transfer , saying he was one of 30 officials from former iraqi government captured in syria and delivered into iraqi custody . sudden syrian move in handing over hassan and other fugitives comes under intense pressure from united_states , which has long contended that syria was harboring top officials of ousted government and allowing them to finance and steer insurgency in iraq . syria 's vulnerabiilty to pressure has compounded under drastic strategic changes that came with american-led toppling of iraq 's former government .
 atty gen alberto_r_gonzales , deputy atty gen paul_j_mcnulty , fbi director robert_s_mueller_iii and senior justice_dept officials reportedly tell associates that they are prepared to quit if white_house orders them to return evidence seized in disputed search of rep william_j_jefferson 's office . potential showdown is averted when pres bush orders evidence to be sealed for 45 days so congress and justice_dept can negotiate . evidence was seized by fbi agents and set off uproar of protest by house leaders in both parties , who said intrusion violated separation of powers doctrine . tensions are especially high because justice dept officials view congressional protest as proxy fight for battles likely to come over criminal investigations into other republicans in congress .
 california gov arnold_schwarzenegger aims to raise $ 500 million by taking 75 percent of punitive damages awarded by juries . will limit lawyer fees and protect defendants from multiple punitive awards for similar conduct . critics say plan amounts to disguised tort reform . eight states already have such ` split-recovery ' laws , although colorado 's law has been struck down by state_supreme_court . lawyers typically take 25 to 40 percent from total award , but california proposal would limit them to contingency fee from plaintiff 's 25 percent share of award only .
 kerry-edwards democratic presidential campaign releases sen john_edwards income figures in response to questions about taxes he paid after he created tax shelter in 1995 . edwards , in four years before he joined senate in 1999 , made nearly $ 27 million as personal injury lawyer . he paid $ 9,353,448 in federal taxes on his income , but shelter allowed him to avoid paying $ 591,112 in medicare tax . edwards has declined to release his full tax filings on annual basis , and his earnings as trial lawyer have been matter of speculation until now .
 winner of puerto_rico 's race for governor is still in dispute , as federal_appeals_court in boston hears arguments about how thousands of disputed ballots that could tip outcome of election should be handled . dispute centers on puerto_rico 's outdated paper balloting system . according to preliminary vote counts , pro-commonwealth candidate anibal acevedo vila narrowly defeated pedro_rossello , pro-statehood candidate , by 3,880 votes . 28,000 disputed ballots contain votes for acevedo vila and roberto_prats , nonvoting delegate .
 article on changing political fortunes of ahmad_chalabi , who has gone from pentagon 's favorite iraqi exile to problem for bush administration . he is harsh critic of pres bush 's endorsement of united_nations plan to keep iraq together until election next year . chalabi 's own political fortunes in iraq may be threatened by that plan . his critics in washington , including cia and many senior uniformed military officers , view him as political opportunist whose years in exile left him with no political base in iraq .
 pres bush emerges from seclusion at his texas ranch , attending easter services at nearby fort_hood and visiting military hospital to award purple hearts to 10 soldiers wounded in iraq . this is his first public appearance through tumultuous week of news . he tells reporters this has been ` tough week ' in iraq .
 former presidents george_bush and bill_clinton are on four-day humanitarian trip to asian nations hit hard by tsunami . they are scheduled to visit phuket , thailand , banda_aceh , indonesia , sri_lanka and maldives in effort to raise money for tsunami victims . trip is most dramatic example in recent months of what staff members for both men describe as growing friendship that seems to have erased bitterness of 1992 election , when clinton ousted bush from white_house .
 sept 11 victim compensation fund , which delivered $ 7 billion to families of those killed or injured in terrorist attacks , issues its final report . fund , established to compensate for lost earning potential of dead , paid awards for 17 victims who had no income at time of attacks . awards averaged $ 6.3 million for 25 wealthiest victims -- people who were earning $ 2 million a year or more . kenneth_r_feinberg , fund 's special master , says families of 13 victims had chosen to neither apply to government fund nor sue airlines or government agencies over liability in attacks .
 pres bush will promote free trade during visit to guatemala , where government 's failure to enforce its own child labor laws violates central american free trade agreement . guatemala 's labor code sets minimum age for employment at 14 , but estimated 16 percent of children between ages of 5 and 14 were in labor_force in 2000 . child workers feel ill used by their parents , bosses and government and say they have yet to notice any benefits from cafta .
 bush administration says rebels in najaf are problem for new_iraqi_administration to resolve . says 3,500 iraqi_army troops are being trained for work like clearing rebel militias from najaf , but american forces will be there to back them up . administration feels prime min ayad_allawi has legitimacy to order military action against sadr forces and believes residents of najaf will support action .
 hip-hop star sean_combs , also known as p diddy , crosses finish line of new_york_city marathon after 4 hours and 54 seconds . says he ran in marathon for city 's children . over past 10 weeks , combs has embarked on news media blitz , publicizing his run to raise money for local charities . one of his representatives says combs raised $ 2 million for charity .
 handful of recent office projects on wilmington , del 's historic christina_river waterfront are challenging long-held belief by planners and officials in wilmington that entertainment and recreational development is crucial to reviving former industrial area . more than $ 50 million in office proejcts were started or completed in past year , including $ 8 million renovation of 1905-6 railroad building designed by philadelphia architect frank_furness for ing direct savings bank . waterfront is now one of state 's most active office development locations in otherwise weak market .
 connecticut_house of representatives passes two-year budget that raises taxes and cuts spending mainly for state 's poorest , leaving lawmakers on both sides of aisle muttering about how it is bad deal that they support only to end stalemate that has dragged on for months . agreement still needs to be ratified by senate and signed by gov john_rowland , but vote in house is viewed an end to wrangling over how to close $ 1 billion deficit in $ 13.5 billion budget for first year .
 overseas programs of one of america 's largest behavior modification associations for teenagers are shut down after authorities close one program in mexico holding more than 500 youths and hurricane ivan strikes second in jamaica , with 300 youths . program , run by world wide assn of specialty programs and schools , or wwasps , of st_george , utah , has come under criticism for allleged physical abuse of youths .
 british armored vehicle blasts through wall of jail in basra to free two british soldiers working under cover who had been arrested by iraqi_police officers in what is described as ` shooting incident ' . incident comes day after british forces in basra arrest three members of mahdi_army , militia loyal to rebellious shiite cleric moktada al-sadr , on suspicion of terrorism .
 european aeronautic_defense and space co says deep slump in its satellite-building and launching business was main reason lost 299 million euros -lrb- $ 330 million -rrb- in 2002 , compared with profit of 1.4 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.55 billion -rrb- in 2001 . will eliminate another 1,700 jobs in satellite business , in addition to 1,600 job cuts already announced . joint chief executives philippe_camus and rainer_hertrich comment .
 georg_jensen , renowned danish silversmith , has come up with new design , this one for smaller stores that will be defining quality of company 's expansion in us . first of new 1,100-square - foot to 2,500-square - foot stores , with tighter focus on goods manufactured by jensen , are to open later this year in soho in manhattan and in greenwich , conn . moves from existing stores to smaller spaces nearby are planned for short hills , ny , and flagship store on madison avenue .
 article on urban renewal project in ansonia , conn , where latex foam international factory burned down nearly two years ago . mayor james_della_volpe hopes to unveil , probably in mid-april , comprehensive multiuse redevelopment of factory site and one - to two-mile stretch along riverfront , undertaken with help of students from yale_university 's management and architecture schools .
 border between united_states and mexico is blurry one , no matter what barriers may be going up to keep people from illegally crossing it . on many issues , there is no separating san_diego , calif , from tijuana , mexico . cities are linked economically , with many residents on each side crossing border each day to go to work .
 dean baquet , editor of los_angeles times who was fired in nov 2006 for refusing to cut jobs from newsroom , is returning to new_york times as chief of washington bureau and assistant managing editor , effective march 5 . current washington bureau_chief_philip_taubman will become investigative reporter and associate editor .
 washington , dc , has begun 20-year , $ 8 billion plan to revitalize banks of anacostia_river . much of river 's west shore is undeveloped , underdeveloped or simply down and out . most eagerly awaited part of plan may be new baseball stadium for washington nationals , which will play at nearby rfk_stadium in interim .
 new_york_city to approve $ 168-million theme park on randalls_island , to open in spring 2008 . aquatic development would receive 35-year lease and guarantee city $ 1 million annually , which could climb to $ 4 million based on attendance . comptroller william_c_thompson criticizes bidding . nearby residents say many could not afford entrance fee . others see misuse of park land .
 pres vicente fox announces resignation of atty gen_rafael_macedo_de_la_concha , who oversaw prosecution of mexico city mayor andres manuel_lopez_obrador . resignation is considered peace offering to lopez_obrador , whose presidential campaign was threatened when congress lifted his official immunity and removed him from office so he could stand trial in land dispute . most mexicans see case against lopez_obrador as conspiracy led by fox 's party in alliance with party that ruled country for seven decades . in united_states , case was denounced as threat to mexico 's fragile democracy .
 ogaden_desert is epicenter of separatist war in ethiopia pitting impoverished nomads against one of biggest armies in africa . people in village after village describe widespread and longstanding reign of terror by ethiopian soldiers who gang-rape women , burn down huts and kill civilians at will . bush administration considers ethiopia its best bet in volatile horn of africa , and american government helps train and equip its army . but emerging concern for american officials is way ethiopian military operates inside its own borders , especially in war zones like ogaden . questions have been raised in congress about american support of ethiopian government . human rights watch division there considers ethiopia to be one of most repressive countries in africa . rep donald_m_payne , chairman of house foreign affairs subcommittee on africa , cites ethiopia 's human rights record and says it is time to stop sending that country so much aid . photos . history of conflict there detailed .
 gunmen ambush minibus in diyala_province , iraq , and kill five passengers , including child . sunni arab insurgents have been active there , and al_qaeda in mesopotamia leader abu_musab_al-zarqawi was killed there by american bombs last year . search for three captured american soldiers continues . in baghdad , bomb hidden on roadway kills three iraqi soldiers , after which shooting erupts nearby between iraqi soldiers and security detail of top sunni arab politicians .
 three protesters are killed in maimana , afghanistan , during clash with nato troops at demonstration against publication of satirical prophet muhammad cartoons in european newspapers . nato troops come under attack by protesters and british troops are sent in as reinforcements . 22 protesters , three afghan police officers and five nato soldiers are injured in violence .
 army and navy investigators conclude that at least 26 prisoners have died in american custody in iraq and afghanistan in what could be criminal homicides . earlier lower tally was limited to what vice adm_albert_c_church calls ` closed , substantiated abuse cases ' . his photo . chart . 18 cases have been referred for action and 8 are still under investigation . only one of deaths was at abu_ghraib , contradicting view that wrongdoing was confined to few military police officers on night shift . at least four deaths involve cia , including one in afghanistan for which cia contract employee david_passaro is facing trial . pentagon says all cases are being pursued vigorously . army says killings took place inside and outside detention areas , including at point of capture in violent battlefield conditions .
 white_house letter : pres bush 's advisers are exasperated about two story lines from presidential debates that will not go away . first is the bulge , strange rectangular box visible between bush 's shoulder blades in first debate , and second is the ` bubble , ' notion that bush has so walled himself off from dissent that he was ill-prepared to take on challenge of sen kerry in their three debates .
 ubisoft of france , europe 's no 1 video game publisher , will announce lineup of 10 games it plans to demonstrate at electronic entertainment expo in los_angeles . most scrutinized game is tom_clancy 's rainbow six vegas , latest in series of games based on novels of tom_clancy that have been ubisoft 's bedrock for last several years . new games from various makers described .
 rep nancy_pelosi , incoming_house speaker , names rep silvestre_reyes as next chairman of house_intelligence_committee . choice of reyes , who opposed war in iraq , sends strong new signal that democrats intend to confront white_house . it also ends weeks of closed-door lobbying among democrats who had been competing for post . pelosi passed over panel 's top democrat , rep jane_harman , political rival and more hawkish figure who voted to authorize war in iraq . reyes photo .
 as india and pakistan face off in mohali , india , for first test match of six-week cricket series , indians and pakistanis greet each other with mixture of emotions . pakistani pres pervez_musharraf is expected to attend a match , probably in indian city of kochi , adding explicitly political flavor to game . last year 's match took indian team to pakistan and prompted effusion of hospitality . this year 's match occurs amid peace talks that have led to cooperation between two countries on kashmir issue .
 los_angeles_county jail has had five killings over last_seven_months , more than san quentin_penitentiary has had in eight years . sheriff lee_baca say budget cuts have led to slipshod security . budget was cut by $ 160 million over two years , and number of guards has been reduced by 25 percent . baca 's critics dismiss his cries of poverty and question his management of jail . dist atty steve_cooley plans to commission investigation into jail operations . baca offers reporters tour of jail .
 article on scene at sunny_atlantic_beach_club in atlantic_beach , ny , on nassau_county 's south shore , where cabana units and lockers are rented to about 1,000 members each summer . focuses on club 's 18-member cabana crew as they work , mostly for tips , to cater to members ' wants and needs . cabana crews work at public and private beaches scattered across long_island sound , jersey shore and westchester_county .
 pakistani officials say pakistan prepares for major military offensive against taliban and al_qaeda forces along its border with afghanistan in next several weeks . operation may be first act of violent , potentially pivotal , spring season along border . seeks to drive qaeda members over border , where american forces will be waiting for them .
 california 's complex campaign financing controls , a mix of legislation , voter initiatives and court rulings , are filled with loopholes through which millions of dollars are flowing into state 's recall election . six-figure contributions from labor unions are pouring into gov gray davis 's anti-recall committee , which is exempt from spending limits . arnold schwarzenegger has jump-started his campaign with $ 2 million donation of his own . peter_v_ueberroth has written his campaign a check for $ 1 million and expects to add $ 2 million more . state 's indian tribes plan to spend as much as $ 10 million on recall campaign , mainly to benefit lt gov cruz m bustamante . state sen tom_mcclintock is raising and spending money through old campaign committees that existed before passage of proposition 34 .
 sharper-than-expected jump in consumer prices in march reawakens worries about return to higher inflation and higher interest rates . 0.5 percent hike in consumer prices , driven by increases for gasoline and clothing , would translate to annual inflation rate of more than 6 percent if it is sustained . inflation rate for all of 2003 was only 1.9 percent . many economists are even more surprised that ` core ' rate of inflation , which excludes volatile categories of energy and food , rose at fastest rate in almost four years . increase in prices in new_york metropoltan area is 1.1 percent , higher than for any other metropolitan area in country and biggest monthly jump for region in 14 years .
 profile of american leather , furniture company started by bob_duncan and based on japanese manufacturing techniques . company , headed by duncan and partners sanjay_chandra and cary_benson , makes sofas and chairs in single batches in few days , with backlog of week and half , compared with industry standard of six to eight weeks . company , based in dallas , tex , employs 390 people and expects sales of about $ 68 milion this year .
 investigators looking into death of seven-year-old faheem_williams suggest sherry_l_murphy and her son wesley may have hidden faheem 's two brothers , raheem and tyrone_hill , in attempt to hide faheem 's death . wesley_murphy has told investigators he accidentally killed faheem while they were wrestling . investigators are also trying to determine if murphy 's daughter had hand in covering up faheem 's death or keeping his brothers confined .
 ethan_hawke and two associates from malaparte theater co , josh_hamilton and john_marc_sherman , give reading of jack_kerouac 's three-act play , beat generation , written in 1957 but never performed , at celeste_bartos forum at new_york public library . hawke , novelist a m homes , harper 's magazine editor lewis_lapham and kerouac 's longtime agent sterling lord hold panel discussion .
 bergen_county , nj , lawmakers have decided to build permanent homeless shelter in hackensack on county property , financing $ 3 million cost by issuing county bonds if they can not win city cooperation needed to get federal and state funds . have approved $ 66,000 feasibility study for building for 100 people to replace trailer-like facility erected 20 years ago as temporary shelter that can_house 38 people .
 defense sec robert m gates presses russia 's top leaders to accept detailed new plan for cooperation on missile defense in europe that he says would make russia full partner in us effort . russia defense min anatoly e serdyukov says kremlin has not dropped its strong opposition to us proposals for antimissile bases in poland and czech republic .
 healthsouth agrees to pay $ 445 million to settle investor lawsuits filed after federal investigators uncovered accounting fraud . $ 230 million will be paid in cash with remaining $ 215 million with common stock and warrants . plaintiffs will receive 25 percent of any future judgements company receives from former chief executive richard_m_scrushy , its former auditor ernst_&_young and its former investment bank ubs . company admits no wrongdoing .
 pres bush is seeking new chief lawyer with credentials as proven combatant as he and his staff prepare for potential raft of investigations from democrats in congress who have promised to challenge white_house 's conduct of policy and its assertions of executive power . white_house chief of staff joshua_b_bolten reportedly is looking for seasoned washington hand to succeed harriet_e_miers , white_house counsel who has announced her resignation .
 researchers have videotaped chimpanzees using variety of tools to catch termites . crickette sanz of washington university -lrb- st_louis -rrb- and max_planck_institute_for_evolutionary_anthropology , leipzig , germany , dave_morgan of cambridge_university and wildlife conservation society and steve_gulick of wildland security publish their findings in american naturalist . types of stick tools described .
 united nations children 's fund reports that african girls still face obstacles getting an education , including traditional mores , crippling poverty and lack of international aid . says that in spite of steady progress in increasing school enrollment in sub-saharan_africa , only 59 percent of all children and only 57 percent of girls attended primary school from 1996 to 2002 . says number of girls out of school in sub-saharan_africa rose over last decade , to 24 million in 2004 from 20 million in 1990 . unicef says uneducated girls are more prone to live in poverty as adults , die in childbirth , contract hiv and raise children who , in turn , are likely to be poor and in ill health .
 new york yankees manager joe_torre meets with george_steinbrenner in tampa , forges detente in cold war with famously outspoken team owner and announces he will stay . reveals at same time that he has gone back and forth about resigning since yankees lost division series , worn out by steinbrenner 's sniping even though he has two years and $ 13.2 million left on contract . says he encouraged steinbrenner to call him directly with problems , endorses leo_mazzone for pitching coach and hopes brian_cashman will re-sign as general manager .
 pres bush 's primary goal during upcoming visit to japan will be to clarify japan 's commitment to sending troops and money to iraq . bush may also put pressure on japan to stop propping up dollar by deliberately weakening yen in light of growing trade deficit . bush is unlikely to win any tug of war over exchange rates with japan . stronger yen makes japanese goods more expensive overseas and cuts profits exporters earn in dollars .
 homeowners are redesigning and organizing their garages , making designer garage latest suburban status symbol . homeowners spent $ 800 million on garage organizing products last year , double amount spent in 2000 and amount spent on garage makeovers is expected to rise by 10 percent per year for rest of decade , making garage oranizing one of fastest growing segments of home improvement market . as americans accumulate more and more goods , three-car garages become too stuffed with junk to hold cars .
 state and local officials in michigan , minnesota , missouri and georgia , and uaw locals , are trying to come up with incentives for ford_motor_co to spare their communities when it announces plant closings on jan 23 as part of second restructuring plan in last four year . company is reportedly considering closing 10 assembly and parts plants and eliminate up to 30,000 jobs . similar high-stakes negotiations are under way with officials at general_motors and parts manufacturers like visteon and delphi . competition among states has become critical to keeping big investments .
 strengthening of euro is latest blow to companies that make luxury goods , which have already been battered by sept 11 , wars in afghanistan and iraq and sars . euro is up 12.7 percent this year against dollar and 10.9 percent against japanese yen , and since many luxury goods are made or at least marketed in europe , that means commensurate price increases for shoppers who pay in dollars or yen .
 actor george_clooney suggests that he and director steven_soderbergh will end their five-year producting partnership when their deal expires with warner_brothers_pictures in two years . two men created their company , section eight , hoping to recreate time when innovative filmmakers worked free of corporate restraints . but section eight 's efforts have so far lacked popular appeal .
 hopes of john_kerry campaign rest on what it views as pres bush 's achilles heel : loss of 900,000 jobs since he took office . but job picture is more mixed than kerry and his campaign advisers care to acknowledge , and nuances may help bush . among swing states , some , like ohio and michigan , have suffered large net job losses since jan 2001 , while others , like florida , nevada and new mexico , have had large job gains .
 prime min tony_blair and chancellor of the exchequer gordon_brown hold rare joint news conference to promote new consensus on europe in nation historically aloof from continent . photo . event at 10 downing street follows brown 's announcment that britain is not ready to shift to euro . blair , who favors deeper british comitment to europe , appears fairly frosty with labor party rival .
 rupert_murdoch has made it clear that his news corp media empire , now run by president peter_chernin , will one day be run by his sons , lachlan , 32 , and james , 31 . analysts say neither seems to have broad experience needed to run company . are concerned that chernin , whose contract expires this year , has yet to sign new one . murdoch reportedly resists his bid for clause that would let him leave if he were offered chief executive job at another company .
 new_york_senate majority leader joseph_bruno , republican who is one of three men who effectively control state government , says fbi is investigating his business interests . says he has known about probe since last_spring and that it does not affect his ability to serve , although it reportedly focuses on how his private dealings may relate to official position . photo . bruno , who will be top republican when gov george_pataki leaves office this month , has held iron grip on legislation along with pataki and democrat sheldon_silver . his consulting work noted .
 taiwan is stunned by ibm 's sale of its personal computer division to lenovo group ltd of china , since it prided itself on being ` silicon_island ' of east_asia . businesses in taiwan have been slow to establish brands known to retail customers , and lenovo-ibm deal will make it even harder for them to trump their mainland counterparts and move beyond their role as low-cost producers . taiwan 's appeal as place to do business is expected to rise as result of legislative elections that preserved thin majority of lawmakers opposed to repeated moved by pres_chen_shui-bian to increase taiwan 's political independence from mainland china .
 seven homeowners in new_london , conn , are fighting_new_london_development_corp , which took title of their homes through eminent domain to develop 90-acre waterfront neighborhood known as fort_trumbull . new london city authorities say condemnations of old homes are justified because city has endured three decades of economic decline . use of eminent domain was uphold by connecticut_supreme_court , but demolition of seven properties has not yet begun because institute_for_justice , representing some homeowners , has asked us_supreme_court to review case . institute has been fighting eminent domain cases all over country and says new london case demonstrates how government authorities are increasingly abusing condemnation powers to enrich developers at expense of homeowners and small businesses .
 terence_l_kindlon , lawyer for christopher_lloyd_mcmillian , files papers saying experts for both defense and prosecution have determined mcmillian is mentally retarded , thereby removing option of death sentence , which is being sought by prosecution . mcmillian , lavin_matthews and tebiah_tucker are accused of killing truck driver carlton_rose in binghamton , ny , in jan 2000 . government says murder occurred in context of gang-related interstate conspiracy among them to sell crack . case was reviewed by atty gen john_ashcroft 's office in june 2002 because mckindlon sought to dissuade justice_dept from seeking death penalty , but attempt was rejected at that time .
 defense sec donald_h_rumsfeld , who basked in military 's swift victory over iraq , is now absorbing criticism from several sides over pentagon 's planning for postwar_iraq . has been so barraged by critics that he has spoken out against his detractors , suggesting that critics of administration 's handling of iraq could be encouraging foes to believe that united_states might walk away from effort . mid-level white_house officials are grumbling privately that poor postwar planning by pentagon has dumped huge political liability into pres bush 's lap .
 former pres bill_clinton , in his first public appearance since quadruple bypass surgery , campaigns for sen john_kerry in philadelphia . tells adoring crowds that kerry offers hope , while pres bush seeks to appeal to their fears . clinton will appear at solo campaign events in florida , nevada and new mexico if his health holds . kerry and his aides see clinton as able to motivate party 's base and to telegraph to undecided voters an essential question : are you better off now than when bush took over oval office .
 white_house letter reports that laura_bush has replaced her entire high command in east_wing . new figures include chief of staff anita_mcbride , policy director sonya_medina , press secretary susan_whitson and social secretary lea_berman . whitson cites natural turnover , although chef walter_scheib_iii was dismissed . pastry chef thaddeus_r_dubois is leaving to return to borgata casino chain , at much higher salary .
 article on mystery surrounding whereabouts of two 900-square-foot murals depicting three centuries of local history that were painted on rotunda_of_brooklyn_borough_hall in 1937 and 1938 and removed in 1946 . murals by alois fabry jr , commissioned by works progress administration , may have been jettisoned during borough hall renovations in 1980 's . fabry 's son , peter , comments .
 profile of and interview with author calvin_trillin , who has been writing poetry for the nation magazine since 1990 . trillin 's book , obliviously on he sails : the bush administration in rhyme , unexpectedly debuted at number 7 on new_york_times_nonfiction best-seller list . book is in its seventh printing , with 75,000 copies , huge for book of nonfiction poetry .
 india has become even more dependent than china on volatile oil-producing countries in middle_east , buying nearly three-quarters of its oil from them now , compared with less than half a decade ago . following in china 's lead , india 's government-owned oil companies are making deals to buy or invest in oil and gas stakes in iran , and indian company has emerged as rival to china in bidding for stake in oil operations taken from yukos by russian government .
 article on rwanda : after , exhibition of photographs of rwanda by michal_ronnen_safdie and accompanying catalog with essays by pulitzer prize-winning author samantha_power , on rwanda ten years afer 800,000 tutsis and tens of thousands of hutus died in orchestrated campaign of violence , organized by hutu extremists . exhibit will be shown for one day , may 25 , at salander-o'reilly galleries before moving to the hague and other international venues .
 clashes between rival militias loyal to gen abdul_rashid_dostum and gen atta muhammad have caused some 70 deaths this year in northern afghanistan . factionalism has reached dangerous proportions in mazar-i-sharif , main prize sought by warring militias , but shelling in nearby balkh continues , claiming civilian lives and causing injuries to people who have not seen peace in 20 years . central government appoints new provincial police chief and orders him to rid balkh of warring militias .
 article profiles medical doctor , poet , novelist , art critic , television host , professor and director of both visual arts and film and media programs at national endowment for the arts , brian_o'doherty . first full-scale retrospective in his native ireland is about to open in dublin at hugh_lane gallery . o'doherty has chosen to sign his artwork patrick ireland until british military presence is removed from northern ireland .
 geologist dr james_webster and dr benedetto_de_vivo of university_of_naples -lrb- italy -rrb- collaborate on project to try and understand why volcanoes erupt . cascade volcano observatory holds half billion people worldwide live within 60 miles of active volcanoes . hopes better understanding of volcanic changes will stave off disasters . physical dynamics , chemical changes , seismic forces and high-pressure gases forming intense bubbles are key components in quest to understand volcanoes . ring of fire region described . webster 's experiment at american_museum_of_national_history detailed .
 article on problems that young couples face as they stretch their budgets to buy their first homes in new_york_city metropolitan area . census figures show sharp increase in number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing in region . 44 percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing and one in six pays more than 50 percent . median price of homes in region has grown at more than double rate of rest of country .
 hong_kong and mainland china complete broad free-trade pact that provides greater access to chinese market for hong_kong businesses . agreement goes beyond market opening that china pledged when it joined world trade organization in november 2001 . comes amid widespread anger in hong_kong about perisistent economic problems and insular political system and as it braces for huge antigovernment protest on sixth anniversary of handover to chinese rule .
 second article in series american dreamers : the lure of las_vegas describes bilbray elementary school , where jennifer_noble is one of more than 2,000 new teachers recruited last year in nation 's fastest-growing school district . photos . new schools are tenuous outposts of community in glue-stick landscapes of raw housing developments . bilbray itself was too small for growing population as soon as it opened last_fall . noble and husband chris , who met in new jersey , moved with three small children back to las_vegas , where she lived as child , because their salaries , his as chef , were not enough in california . he now works 15-hour days at bistro in venetian hotel . many of noble 's pupils on mobile frontier are veterans of multiple moves from ever-shifting boundaries of schools rising from desert .
 two taliban officials interviewed recently claim that organization has embarked on strategy of small guerrilla attacks intended to frustrate and steadily bleed american forces in afghanistan and to force united_states to expend billions of dollars in military costs . they predict that us , sapped by slow , costly and grinding conflict , will abandon afghanistan after two to three years . liken current situation to defeat of soviet forces in afghanistan in 1980 's .
 bush administration is considering toughening its policy toward sudan over events in darfur , where thousands of people have been killed and over million driven from their homes by arab militias that many in region say are linked to sudanese army . bush officials are considering whether what is happening in darfur amounts to genocide . sec of state_colin_l_powell says link between militias and government is strong , and that many people are still at risk of dying in darfur and across bor der in chad .
 barbara_corcoran , self-made real estate icon , has sold highly successful corcoran group to nrt , subsidiary of cendant_corp , for $ 70 million after founding it in 1978 with $ 1,000 loan . will resign from current figurehead role in november to start television production company . she and husband bill_higgins live with their son in three-bedroom park avenue condominium they bought for $ 3.5 million in 2000 that she calls ` my dream ' .
 new_york_city homicide investigators continue working to build case against suspect in rape and murder of imette_st_guillen on feb 25 in brooklyn . darryl_littlejohn , bouncer at bar where victim was last seen alive , is being held in jail on parole violation . detectives are also looking for links to at least three other unsolved rape and kidnapping cases in queens and long_island .
 western german towns along old border with east germany dread economic impact from proposed withdrawal of 70,000 american troops from europe and asia and closure of german bases . americans in schweinfurt typically spend total $ 31 million a year , representing five percent of town 's retail sales . schweinfurt has unemployment rate of 10.2 percent , and conversion of military facilities to civilian use would be difficult under current economic conditions .
 article on andrew_forrest , whose family was among first european settlers in pilbara region of western australia . he has amassed region 's single largest landholding . fortescue metals group . he is preparing to build iron ore mine , port facility and 250-mile railway connecting two . project is valued at 1.85 million australian dollars -lrb- $ 1.41 million -rrb- .
 ibm says bush administration has completed national security review of planned sale of ibm 's personal computer business to lenovo of china , clearing way for deal . unusual scrutiny given to deal mainly reflects ambivalence in washington toward china , and its rising economic and military power . lenovo purchased unit for $ 1.75 billion in cash , stock and debt .
 news analysis of major bomb attacks in istanbul as confirming that turkey is latest battleground in struggle over terror . attacks appear aimed at disrupting pro-western secular axis that many people in middle_east_believe us and britain are trying to drive through region to create swath of friendly territory from mediterranean to persian_gulf . modern turkey , model_nato member , has fostered european-style secular political culture crucial to efforts to send pro-western values percolating through tribal and theocratic grid of middle_east .
 debate heats up again about whether merck_&_co understated vioxx 's risks in new_england journal of medicine article in november 2000 . 11 scientists who were co-authors of article say they stand by original conclusions , despite heavy criticism from editors of journal . scientists are not employed by merck . company financed study and their initial work on paper , and two merck scientists were also co-authors . scientists say article in 2000 adequately disclosed vioxx 's risks / .
 saad qasim_al-shawi , former iraqi soldier who fled for his life after persian_gulf war , returns to his home in basra after 12 years in refugee camp in saudi_arabia . is stunned to find country vastly different from one he left , and disheartened to see how his family is living . hundreds of thousands of other iraqi refugees are expected to return in next few years . because of country 's precarious condition , occupying powers insist that they be returned slowly .
 johnny_barnes , actor who played sugar ray_robinson in film ` raging bull ' has enjoyed special status in harlem_poolrooms and boxing gyms for last quarter-century . film is being shown at ziegfeld theater in manhattan . many original cast members , including robert_de_niro , who played jake_lamotta , and director martin_scorsese attended 25th anniversary screening , but barnes was not invited .
 article on mother noella_marcellino , 52 , renowned as champion of france 's famous , raw-milk cheeses and centuries-old ways they are made . mother noella , who makes cheese in abbey of regina_laudis in bethlehem , conn , has received first french food spirit award in category of science advancement and will star in pbs documentary the cheese nun : sister noella 's voyage of discovery .
 russia 's economy grew 6.8 percent in 2003 bolstered by higher oil prices . oil remains crucial factor underpinning russia 's economic boom , rising oil prices , combined with pres vladimir_v_putin 's policies , spurred growth of 6.1 percent . oil helped russia set export record of $ 134.4 billion , up 25 percent from 2002 .
 ukraine and moldova are both eager to burnish relations with europe and united_states and are taking steps to shut down smuggling and unregistered trade that flows from self-declared separatist region of transnistria . european union observers have been monitoring frontier on both sides of transnistria since last year . officials in ukraine and moldova are pressing for solution to conflict in transnistria , even at risk of worsening relations with patron russia .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column claims bush administration policies toward north_korea have backfired and led north to churn out nuclear weapons . says it has antagonized america 's allies and diminished america 's stature in asia . says pres bush 's refusal to negotiate bilaterally is single greatest failure of his foreign policy . says irony is that he has become steadily more reasonable over time , but it may be too late to keep north from producing dozen nuclear weapons .
 pres charles_taylor of liberia says he will leave his country and accept refuge in nearby nigeria , but does not say when he will go . is former guerrilla leader who was indicted as war criminal after becoming president . taylor makes his announcement after meeting with pres olusegun_obasanjo of nigeria at airport in monrovia , liberia . obasanjo says he offered taylor ` safe haven ' in nigeria but does not say whether his offer includes immunity from prosecution for war crimes . bush administration spokesman says pres bush will not be satisfied until taylor actually leaves country . says latest developments have not led bush to make decision about sending peacekeeping force to liberia .
 sanitation comr john_j_doherty says closing former fresh kills landfill on staten_island could take five more years and cost more than $ 1.4 billion over 30 years , hundreds of million more dollars than earlier projections . says city has reached revised deal with visy_industries to build box factory on staten_island that would use recycled paper .
 david_norcross , central organizer of republican_national_convention , is also lobbyist for corporate clients like raytheon that seek access to highest levels of bush administration . dual roles are not illegal but illustrate how campaign finance reform has had unintended effect of exaggerating already considerable influence of corporations in party conventions . fred_wertheimer of democracy 21 calls conventions ` last remaining watering hole ' . norcross is lobbyist for blank_rome and also longtime politician in new jersey .
 bloomberg_administration sets up special court in brooklyn to handle all felony gun possession cases from five brooklyn neighborhoods with heaviest concentration of shootings in city . new court is intended to consolidate and speed up processing of gun cases in a violent stretch of central brooklyn that accounted for 56 percent of all shootings in that borough last year .
 author luis_alberto_urrea op-ed article holds that murder rate in chicago 's inner city dropped in 2005 , but rate of killings increased in suburbs . attributes this to movement of poverty . says illinois reportedly added 65,000 jobs and unemployment held steady at 5.5 percent . notes that 24,500 people applied for only 325 jobs at new wal-mart outside chicago .
 south_dakota is holding special election on june 1 to fill seat in house of representatives left vacant when bill_janklow resigned after being convicted of manslaughter in traffic accident in which motorcyclist was killed . election , which pits democrat stephanie_herseth against republican larry_diedrich , is drawing national scrutiny because it is likely to be last election congressional election before pres bush and sen john_kerry face off in november , so both parties are eager for momentum that victory could provide . career highlights of both candidates .
 on stage and off column . producers of musical the producers announce that brad_oscar and roger_bart , veterans of show , will replace nathan_lane and matthew_broderick on april 6 . radio golf , final chapter of august wilson 's 10-play chronicle of african-american experience in 20th_century , will premiere in april 2005 at yale repertory theater .
 palestinian pres mahmoud abbas of fatah swears in emergency government , reasserting his authority over west bank days after rival hamas routs his forces in gaza and seizes power there . salam fayyad , internationally respected economist , will serve as prime minister as well as finance and foreign minister in 12-member cabinet . hamas calls emergency government illegitimate . two katyusha rockets fired from lebanon land in israeli town of kiryat_shmona , causing some damage but no casualties . prime min ehud olmert of israel , on trip to united_states , says israel concludes rockets were launched by ` small palestinian section ' with ties to al_qaeda . says he has told united_nations secretary general ban ki-moon that un forces sent to southern lebanon have made northern israel ` safest ' it has been in 40 years .
 article on possible future of plum_island animal disease center off long_island 's north fork , where department_of_agriculture has conducted research for past 50 years on some of most virulent and highly infectious animal diseases in world . some north fork residents and second-home owners worry about accidents and want facility closed . department of homeland security , which will take over plum_island in june , may transfer animal disease research to laboratory in ames , iowa , and use plum island for bioterrorism research .
 hundreds of bombed-out , smashed , machine-gunned and otherwise damaged civilian vehicles from iraq_occupy_corner_of_american_army base in kuwait . so-called boneyard is bleak but powerful memorial to civilian contractors wounded and killed while delivering supplies to american-led forces . kellogg_brown_&_root has lost 46 employees , including 16 truckers . 211 of its trucks were damaged or destroyed in two days in april .
 new jersey_department_of_environmental_protection is trying to decide how to make george_searle remove decaying staten_island ferry vessel that he bought 25 years ago at auction . ferry was towed up raritan_river to marina in east_brunswick where its rusting and unmistakable outline has been landmark visible to motorists crossing river near exit 9 . searle has enlisted family members and cadre of workers to prepare ship fo removal or whatever its fate may be . resolution is difficult for state because rotting ship may not be stable enough to be towed away by conventional methods and because presence of asbestos complicates any plans to destroy it and cart it away .
 steven_b_markowitz , former trader at millenium_partners_hedge_fund , pleads guilty to buying and selling shares of mutual funds after market closed but at 4 pm price . is cooperating with investigation led by atty gen_eliot_spitzer of new_york , who expects additional criminal or civil charges . sec says at least three broker-dealers executed markovitz 's orders but does not name them in its settlement with markovitz , which bars him for life from working for investment adviser or mutual fund and provides for fine yet to be determined .
 wellpoint announces deal to acquire wellchoice , publicly traded company that owns empire blue cross blue shield in new_york , for $ 6.5 billion . deal would raise wellpoint 's total blue membership nationwide to about 26 million -- or more than one in four of 93 million blue cross and blue ghield members across country . wellpoint might like to continue buying blue cross plans in other states , but deals could be much harder to come by . big nonprofit blues in states like florida , michigan , illinois and texas have been thriving .
 chinese government is considering creating $ 15 billion fund to help bail out nation 's ailing stock market . creation of huge fund to invest in mainland stocks would be government 's most striking effort yet to restore confidence in market that has fallen to its lowest level in about eight years . proposal comes at time when china 's economy is sizzling hot , but nation 's communist party leadership is struggling to fix stock market that has been broken for several years . shanghai and shenzhen stock exchanges are each down 40 to 50 percent from highs they reached in 2001 .
 interview with rabbi benjamin_blech , professor at yeshiva_university in manhattan , who parlayed his $ 50,000 nest egg into $ 7 million , and then lost it all when nasdaq plunged in 2000 . he has written book to share his lessons with others : taking stock : a spiritual guide to rising above life 's financial ups and downs .
 study finds that if present population trends continue , dominicans will surpass puerto ricans as new_york_city 's largest hispanic group . dominican population increased by 51 percent during 1990 's to 554,638 , while puerto rican population shrunk to 789,172 . dominicans have 32 percent poverty rate as compared to 19.1 percent for overall population .
 excerpts from new books about new_york 's baseball teams and stars that graced city 's diamonds . luckiest man : the life and death of lou_gehrig by jonathan_eig , bat boy : my true life adventures coming of age with the new_york_yankees by matthew_mcgough , brooklyn remembered : the 1955 days of the dodgers by maury_allen , how about that ! the life of mel_allen by stephen_borelli and tales from the mets dugout by bruce_markusen .
 article on steps being taken by nassau_county executive thomas_suozzi and suffolk_county executive steve_levy to lay framework for regional planning after long_island regional planning board executive director lee_koppelman steps down . koppelman , 77 , who has filled unpaid post since its inception in 1965 , says his goal is to complete comprehensive regional plan that is now in its final stages .
 phillip_lopate essay on new_york master builder robert_moses , subject of robert_caro 's 1974 biography , the power broker : robert_moses and the fall of new_york . focuses on revisionist reflection that is being applied to moses ' legacy three decades after caro 's book , particularly in light of new book , robert_moses and the modern city : the transformation of new_york , edited by columbia profs hilary_ballon and kenneth_t_jackson .
 metropolitan museum exhibit celebrating 150th anniversary of central_park , which it has inhabited since 1880 , traces design and building of nation 's first great public park , and also recalls typically new_york tempest over its creation . calvert vaux and frederick law olmsted won 1858 design competition to sculpt swampy , scrubby , rocky site . curator morrison h heckscher explains .
 state legislators across country , lead by democrats , are pushing forward with their own resolution opposing pres bush 's policies in iraq . resolutions have passed in california , iowa and vermont . maryland_general_assembly sent letter to its congressional delegation , urging opposition to increasing troops in iraq . letters or resolutions are being drafted in at least 19 other states . goal is to embarrass congress into action and to provide cover for democrats and republicans seeking concrete evidence that anti-iraq resolutions enjoy popular support .
 jonathan_fuerbringer column on so-so performance of stock market since federal_reserve began raising rates in june . average increase in standard_&_poor 's 500 earlier cycles , from month before rate increases began to month after they ended , was 3.5 percent . index has climbed 2 percent in current , not yet completed , cycle .
 analysis say turnaround has begun in $ 63 billion global market in luxury goods . big luxury brands are trying to get out in front , to grab spotlight with most irresistible new accessory . accessories count for 70 percent of gucci 's income . vuitton , thanks to leather goods , contributes 60 percent of operating profit of lvmn_moet_hennessy_louis_vuitton , world 's largest luxury company . other luxury-goods makers , including christian dior , chanel and saint laurent , are hoping for their own big hit . some major retail chains specializing in luxury goods , including neiman_marcus , nordstrom and saks_inc , posted significant gains in september .
 rodrigo granda , ` foreign minister ' of revolutionary armed forces of colombia , lived openly in las mercedes de tasajera in venezuela for two years before his capture in caracas on dec_13 in murky operation that has sparked dispute between colombian pres alvaro_uribe and venezuelan hugo_chavez . chavez charges that venezuelan sovereignty was violated and claims colombia bribed venezuelan national guardsmen to make arrest . bush administration has thrown its support behind uribe .
 nasa releases document showing that during columbia 's liftoff , not one but three chunks of debris flew off 15-story external fuel tank and hit shuttle 's left wing . previously , public inquiry into what caused craft to break up focused only on largest chunk . document is third in series of reports that analysts at boeing , major shuttle contractor , prepared to help nasa judge if debris had endangered shuttle and its crew of seven astronauts .
 general_electric_co completes its agreement to acquire entertainment assets of vivendi_universal in deal that executives say could create new entertainment conglomerate better able to compete with other media_giants . new entity , to be called nbc_universal , will be 80 percent owned by ge , with vivendi retaining rest . nbc will add universal 's movie and television studios , theme parks and three cable channels to its media assets , bringing total value of new enterprise that ge estimates at $ 43 billion . nbc chairman robert_c_wright , who will become chairman of new company , calls it ` without question ' most significant acquisition that nbc has ever made .
 us and great britain plan to urge un security council to vote on new resolution giving iraq until march 17 to disarm . france , russia and china , which hold veto power , dismiss new proposal . actions come after chief un weapons inspectors mohamed elbaradei and hans_blix contradict some us and british assertions about iraqi violations . elbaradei says report , believed to be from british intelligence , that iraq tried to purchase uranium from niger is based on fake documents . both say iraq , under threat of force , is increasingly but belatedly cooperating .
 democratic primary in 80th assembly district in bronx includes naomi_rivera , daughter of assemblyman jose_rivera , who is current bronx democratic party chairman . anthony_friedman , son of former assemblyman and bronx democratic chairman george_friedman , is another candidate . former police detective joseph_a_thompson is third candidate . assembly seat is currently held by jeffrey_klein , who is running for state_senate seat vacated by guy j velella .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg says new_york_city should see infusion of $ 80 million in tourism and other spending by people flocking to see the gates , art project in central park by christo and jeanne-claude . journalists from more than 200 media outlets , including networks in sweden , mexico city and tokyo and others as unusual as bulgarian national television , crowd into temple of dendur at metropolitan museum of art to hear bloomberg and two artists discuss project .
 strength of manhattan 's commercial property market is causing developers to rethink plans to convert aging office buildings into residential condominiums , and some are deciding to sell buildings outright to developers that specialize in commercial projects . international toy center is latest example of reverse in residential conversion trend . building is being sold for about $ 500 million to l_&_l_holding_co , which will reposition it as class a office space . site was purchased more than two years ago for $ 350 million by chetrit_group .
 martha_graham_dance_co , emerging from paralysis caused by legal battle over rights to dances , names janet_eilber artistic director of martha_graham_center_of_contemporary_dance . trims full-time staff from 36 to 28 and eliminates nine part-time positions . artistic directors christine_dakin and terese_capucilli publicly denounce what they call their termination .
 aging oil rigs in north_sea off coast of scotland are raising concerns about maintenance and safety . oil industry built platforms and rigs meant to last_25_to_30_years_about_three_decades_ago , but north_sea is expected to produce some five million barrels of oil per day in 2010 , only 20 percent less than it does today .
 pres bush increased his campaign spending in july to highest levels since march , laying out almost $ 46 million as his organization escalated television advertising in effort to limit any gains that sen john_kerry may have made by choosing sen john_edwards as his running mate and then accepting democratic presidential nomination . kerry spent less than $ 38 million in july , making that month first since march in which he spent less than bush .
 china says it will decide what democratic moves will be allowed in hong_kong in coming years , angering democracy advocates there . basic law that london and beijing negotiated before britain handed over territory to china in 1997 says that any electoral changes must be approved by chief executive and legislature in hong_kong and then ratified by national people 's congress in beijing .
 article by marine_corps_reserve corporal david_c_botti , who has recently returned to his adopted city of new_york after serving four months in iraq . recalls his move to new_york just month before being called to active duty , his experiences in iraq , his return to city and how his life changed after bomb destroyed building in nasiriyah where he had lived .
 senate , 51-48 , approves democratic amendment to reduce pres bush 's proposed tax cut by half , complicating outlook for economic plan that relies on $ 726-billion tax cut over ten years . three republicans break ranks as sponsors raise concerns about costs of iraq war and rising budget deficits . photo of sponsor sen john_b_breaux . republicans olympic snowe and george_voinovich , who voted for amendment along with lincoln_chafee , say they will vote for final budget plan regardless of size of tax cut .
 bush administration , decade after government began its landmark effort to break up microsoft , has changed course by repeatedly defending company in us and abroad against accusations of anticompetitive conduct , including rejection of complaint by google . asst atty gen thomas_o_barnett has urged state prosecutors to reject confidential antitrust complaint filed by google that is tied to consent decree that monitors microsoft 's behavior . google has accused microsoft of designing its latest operating system , vista , to discourage use of google 's desktop search program .
 article evaluates performance of members of national_commission on terrorist attacks upon the united_states and witnesses who appeared before commission . focuses particularly on commission members suggested for roles in possible kerry administration : jamie_s_gorelick , sen bob_kerrey , richard_ben-veniste and chairman thomas_h_kean . also assesses witnesses atty gen john_ashcroft , richard_a_clarke , national security adviser condoleezza_rice and fbi dir robert s mueller_iii .
 gov james e mcgreevey expands his campaign to clean up new jersey 's drinking water supplies by proposing that state 's highest purity standards for untreated water be applied to two bergen_county reservoirs . mcgreevey proposes category 1 status for lake tappan , woodcliff lake and about 30 streams that flow into two reservoirs .
 united states continues to level accusations at syria . american intelligence sources say it is allowing some members of hezbollah , shiite muslim militant group based in lebanon , to travel from syrian-controlled southern lebanon to iraq . senior bush administration officials continue to charge that members of saddam_hussein 's family and leadership circle are being allowed to escape into syria . and defense_sec donald h rumsfeld declares that syria has conducted chemical weapons test within past 12 to 15 months .
 homeland security dept internal report says threat to united_states presented by five of six nations long described as ` state sponsors of terrorism ' is declining . says north_korea , sudan , syria , libya and cuba are of ` diminishing concern , ' but iran , final country on list , is described as potential threat over next five years .
 plan to dismantle bronze soldier in tallinn , estonia , and relocate it to military cemetery or memeorial park raises ire of russia , even threats of sanctions . russia sees statue as homage to soldiers who defeated nazi germany . to estonians , statue glorifies another totalitarian_state , soviet_union , which occupied indendent estonia on eve of world war ii and again in 1944 after driving out nazi armies .
 joyce_purnick column on order from schools chancellor joel_klein that bars rashid khalidi from lecturing to new_york_city public school teachers enrolled in professional development course at columbia_university . khalidi is director of columbia 's middle_east_institute and has been accused of making anti-israel statements . columbia pres lee c bollinger_rebukes_klein 's decision , which has fueled debate on academic freedom .
 strong whiff of campaigning by republican presidential hopefuls with their sights set on 2008 is undercurrent of convention . sens bill frist and chuck_hagel and massachusetts gov mitt_romney are appearing at events where early primaries take place and rudolph_giuliani and new_york gov george_pataki also have strong presence . no one is openly displaying desire for white_house , but some are seen as laying groundwork .
 new_york_stock_exchange will save as much as $ 3.5 million this year by renegotiating contract with richard_a_grasso . savings is significant for exchange , which made $ 28 million last year . board last week disclosed that it would pay grasso lump sum of $ 140 million in accrued savings and incentives , in addition to base salary of $ 1.4 million and bonus of at least $ 1 million . exchange 's directors say that by ending old contract exchange would save on interest it would have owed grasso through 2005 , when contract would have expired . savings amounted to $ 3.5 million for this year .
 federal_aviation_administration gathers dozens of executives from 15 airlines that fly into o'hare_international_airport and asks them to cut their schedules by 5 percent to reduce delays that are so extensive that they ripple from chicago to airports through whole country . faa admr marion_c_blakey warns that if no agreement is reached , her agency will use its statutory authority and act unilaterally .
 special court panel in texas to rule on whether state_supreme_court justice nathan_hecht was guilty of ` willful and persistent ' violations of judicial ethics in lobbying on behalf of bush administration 's failed bid to put harriet_miers on us_supreme_court . hecht , close friend of miers for 30 years , told commission he gave about 120 press interviews promoting nomination last year , swept up in ` tsunami ' of coverage . commission says he violated his own court 's rules on advancing individual 's private interests .
 israeli military files manslaughter charges against army officer in killing of four palestinians , including three children , at outdoor market in jenin last year . israeli human rights group b ' tselem says that case is ninth time in past three years that military has indicted troops on charges of illegally using deadly force .
 op-ed article by new_york_city public advocate betsy_gotbaum assesses changes in new_york_city school system under mayor bloomberg and chancellor joel_klein . cautions that klein has put in place dizzying set of educational , managerial and systematic changes -- many without consulting educators or public . holds klein must reclaim army of supporters he has spurned .
 sen john_kerry defeated massachusetts gov william f weld by eight percentage points when he ran for re-election in 1996 . polls in final stretch of campaign showed that little more than third of massachusetts voters believed kerry deserved third term . how kerry bounced back provides valuable insights into him as campaigner , his combative instincts and how he deals with adversity . people on either side of 1996 race say these same qualities propelled come-from-behind victory over howard_dean in iowa that set him on path to winning seven of nine democratic contests . his supporters say 1996 race also put on display political prowess kerry will show as candidate trying to topple incumbent president . kerry and weld photo .
 millennium partners , one of most successful hedge fund managers , agrees to $ 180 million settlement over elaborate scheme to trade in and out of mutual funds . its founder , israel a englander , will personally pay $ 30 million fine under civil settlement with new_york_state_atty_gen_eliot_spitzer_and_securities_and_exchange_commission . will not be required to step down from overseeing his $ 5.4 billion hedge fund firm .
 analysts say contradictory agendas of 60 countries attending special conference on iraq in sharm_el_sheik , egypt , will make it difficult to cobble together effective , widely acceptable strategy . but conference will offer rare high-level contact between united_states and two governments it has tried to isolate , iran and syria . how extensive their discussions will be is far from clear . us hopes to get lenders to forgive 80 percent of iraq 's $ 56 billion in foreign debt . even this modest goal may run into opposition from some arab leaders who see any agreement to help current iraqi government as step toward empowering iran .
 assemblyman adam_clayton_powell 4th appears somewhat tentative about challenging rep charles_b_rangel , dean of new_york_city 's congressional delegation , should rangel seek re-election in 2004 . has raised funds and met with supporters and advisers throughout harlem , but says his immediate plans are to do best job he can in his present position as assemblyman in east_harlem . rangel would be expected to run well-funded and organized campaign .
 verizon_communications , sbc_communications and bellsouth report surprisingly strong second-quarter earnings on strength of surge in new broadband sales and continued help from wireless phone units . verizon has net profit of $ 1.8 billion on revenue of $ 17.8 billion , up 6 percent . adds 280,000 new broadband customers , for total of 2.9 million . sbc adds 315,000 new high-speed lines in quarter , and bellsouth adds another 120,000 . comcast , cable provider , still leads with 5.6 million customers .
 team of prosecutors raid offices of self-proclaimed corporate raider yoshiaki_murakami in tokyo . murakami , in hastily called news conference before his arrest , admits he broke law . murakami , during two days of interrogations , denied buying 9.95 billion yen -lrb- $ 90 million -rrb- worth of shares in radio station after hearing directly from internet portal livedoor that it was also buying shares fine if found guilty of insider tradin .
 sen john_kerry and other democrats , seizing on record-high gasoline prices averaging over $ 2 a gallion , launch coordinated attack on pres bush 's energy policy and urge him to immediately push opec to expand oil output . kerry , campaigning , portland , ore , questions bush 's failure to address issue . several democrats urge bush to begin withdrawing oil from reserves . kerry says he does not advocate move yet , but says united_states should stop adding to reserves . white_house quickly rejects tapping reserves .
 government plan for complete , nationwide ban on guns generates impassioned civic debate in brazil , country where nearly 40,000 people were killed by firearms in 2003 alone . country will vote on oct 23 . referendum is thought to be first time anywhere in world that electorate is called on to decide issue . brazil has second-largest arms industry in western_hemisphere , and it exports 80 percent of weapons to neighboring countries . both sides agree that race is tight , and outcome is uncertain .
 richard_n_perle resigns as chairman of defense_policy_board in wake of disclosures that his business dealings included recent meeting with saudi arms dealer adnan_khashoggi and contract to advise global crossing that is seeking permission from defense_department to be sold to hong_kong 's hutchison_whampoa_ltd . pentagon says perle will remain on board . global crossing also announces that perle has decided to sever his ties with company . perle 's troubles began with article in the new yorker by seymour_m_hersh that disclosed perle had lunch earlier this year with khashoggi . perle responded to article by calling hersh terrorist and threatening to sue his in british court for libel .
 article on gay scene in orlando , fla , which has emerged in last few years as major destination for gay tourists . focuses on parliament_house_club complex , which , after undergoing $ 2 million makeover , is about to break ground on gardens , adjoining 164-unit time-share resort heralded as first gay-friendly project of its kind in world . thumbnail sketches of what chicago , philadelphia and san_diego are doing to attract gay , lesbian , bisexual and transgender visitors .
 venture capitalists are again embracing open-source technology companies . research firm ventureone estimates that jboss , which offers layer of software for controlling web applications , is one of 20 such businesses that raised $ 149 million in venture money in 2004 . says venture capitalists invested $ 714 million in 71 open-source companies , and most of those projects collapsed . big difference now is increased adoption of open-source software by corporate uses . another is relative success of red hat , open-source start-up that went public in 1999 and makes money by selling enhancements and maintenance services to corporations using linux open-source operating system . marc_fleury , founder and lead developer of jboss , comments .
 george , 74 , is last resident of stevenson_hotel , one of last flophouses on bowery . has been living there since 1980 , and he refuses to move . chun kien_realty , owner of hotel , paid other tenants to move to another flophouse . it can not redevelop $ 1.2 million building until george is gone . landlord has offered him $ 75,000 to leave , but george wants $ 200,000 .
 steven_brill , journalist and founder of american lawyer and court tv , pledges more than $ 1 million to yale_university to fund journalism program . 15 to 25 students will become yale journalism scholars each year and attend writing intensives and journalism seminars . brill 's interest in furthering good journalism discussed . brill attended yale .
 bolshoi dismisses ballerina_anastasia_volochkova for gaining weight after dispute that enthralled russian press . she holds she is in top form and following strict diet . complains of conspiracy against her . is measured by new_york_times to show that she is 5 feet 6 inches tall , not nearly six feet as russian press has reported . detractors consider her outsider at bolshoi who influenced administration with financial support her admirers give company .
 state court of appeals upholds plan to refinance remainder of new_york_city 's debt from 1970 's fiscal crisis . plan , opposed by gov george_e_pataki , will supply city with $ 500 million a year for next five years and make state responsible for paying off refinanced debt at $ 170 million a year for 30 years . court rules only on validity of plan , not wisdom of legislation that created it .
 swift boat veterans for truth says it has raised $ 6.7 million in recent weeks . texas oilman t boone_pickens gave $ 500,000 , and other texans are also large donors . group has spent $ 4.2 million since april , mostly on radio and television advertisements attacking sen john_kerry 's service record . group says almost 60 percent of its income came from donations of $ 1,000 or less . group has received reams of national publicity . bush-cheney campaign denies involvement in attacks on kerry .
 aircraft mechanics fraternal associaion begins election to represent 14,000 mechanics at united_airlines . election promises to add to turmoil at united , which filed for bankruptcy in december . successful drive at united would more than double_size_of_association , which has about 11,000 members at seven airlines , and is not affiliated with afl-cio . association is facing off against international_association_of_machinists and aerospace workers , powerful union representing more than 100,000 airline mechanics across country . association beat out machinists in drives at southwest_airlines and alaska_airlines . national director o v delle-femine says mechanics at united have been poorly served by iam . chart .
 prospects of higher profits has stimulated new round of merger talks in airline industry , whose fortunes have started to improve after more than $ 30 billion in losses over last five years . mergers would lead to in short term to fewer planes , more-crowded flights and higher fares . rep james l oberstar says justice_department should block any major airline merger . adds if it does not , he will call hearings before his house_committee_on_commerce and transportation next year to consider action to block such mergers . workers for delta_air_lines gather in atlanta , ga , to protest $ 8.5 billion bid by us_airways to buy delta , which is operating under bankruptcy protection .
 french con man christopher_rocancourt , accused of bilking wealthy out of nearly $ 1 million , is extradited to brooklyn -lrb- nyc -rrb- from canada , where he served year in jail . is arraigned on 11 felony fraud charges . while in canadian jail he wrote his autobiography moi , christophe_rocancourt , orphelin , play-boy et taulard .
 on stage and off column : producers robyn_goodman and roy_gabay announce plans for revival of neil_simon 's 1963 play barefoot in the park , to be directed by scott_elliott . news follows reports about future revival of simon 's 1965 play the odd couple , possibly starring matthew_broderick and nathan_lane .
 one of east_asia 's most unusual religious and athletic spectacles is about to be revived on cheung_chau_island in hong_kong . event involves climbing 47-foot bamboo towers to grab sweet buns tied to top of each tower . only 12 climbers will be allowed , and they all must wear safety harnesses roped to tower . event was banned in 1978 after one tower tipped over under weight of 100 clinmbers , injuring 100 people , some seriously .
 southwest museum of the american indian will lock doors for next three years as 240,000 objects in its collection are prepared to move to new building next to autry 's museum of the american_west in los_angeles . museums ' merger to form autrey national center has stirred up concern that indian heritage will be overshadowed by hollywood identity of gene_autry and cowboys_of_american_west .
 liberian pres charles_taylor is indicted on war crimes charges by special court in sierra_leone , run jointly by that country and united_nations . indictment is made public shortly after taylor , bowing to pressure from ghana , nigeria and south_africa , announces at opening of peace conference convened in ghana to help end liberia 's current civil war that he will step down by end of year . just after being applauded for his retirement anouncement , taylor leaves peace conference abruptly and catches plane home rather than risk arrest .
 southold 's handling of development on preserved farmland is closely watched by other towns on eastern end of long_island , new_york , which face similarly intense development pressures . councilman tom_wickham , whose family has farmed on north fork for generations , says town 's goal is to preserve 75 percent of remaining farmland and reduce new housing density 60 percent . he is proposing to set up land preservation committee that would decide what structures are permitted and where , allowing maximum coverage of twenty percent of land .
 proposal to build theme park called bible park usa in rutherford_county , tenn , has ignited fierce opposition . opponents argue that any theme park would be wrong kind of growth for area , that proposed tax incentives should not be extended to developers and that park will cheapen bible and their religion . armon_bar-tur , managing director of safeharbor holding , new_york company that is developing bible park usa , says project was revealed to officials months before it was ready . park would cost $ 150 million to $ 200 million .
 defense dept officials say navy wants to increase its fleet to 313 ships by 2020 , reversing years of decline in naval shipbuilding and adding dozens of warships designed to defeat emerging adversaries . plan by adm_michael_g_mullen envisions major shipbuilding program that would cost more than $ 13 billion a year , $ 3 billion more than current shipbuilding budget .
 palestinian carrying explosives blows himself up during rush hour in beersheba , first act of suicide terrorism since israel pulled its settlers out of gaza_strip . hours later , israeli cabinet votes overwhelmingly to allow egypt to patrol its border with gaza with 750 armed men , permitting israel to withdraw last of its soldiers from gaza in next month . palestinian leader mahmoud abbas condemns bombing in beersheba . militant groups islamic jihad and al_aksa_martyrs brigades claim responsibility .
 city of phoenix completes work on $ 46 million medical laboratory building dedicated to genetic research . 170,000-square - foot laboratory , finished in december , stands on 15-acre downtown area known as phoenix biomedical center at copper square . nonprofit research groups translational_genomics_research_institute_and_international_genomics_consortium have already moved into four floors that they leased before construction . lab 's official opening is in march . another floor of six-story facility is to be occupied by national_institute_of_diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases , arm of national_institutes_of_health , leaving only one full floor still to be leased .
 robert_j_mahony , former top spokesman of keyspan_corp , claims in federal lawsuit that he was improperly fired four years ago as punishment for alerting executives to allegations of accounting irregularities involving hundreds of millions of dollars . keyspan says mahony was terminated as part of broad-based reduction in force . company generates power for most of long_island .
 dow jones industrial average closes above 12,000 mark for first time , but looking ahead , stock market 's performance in coming year will largely hinge on how gracefully economy handles troubled housing market . dow industrials close up 19.05 points , at 12,011.73 . standard & poor 's 500-stock index advances one point , to 1,366.98 . nasdaq composite index gains 3.79 points , closing at 2,340.94 . yield on benchmark 10-year treasury note rises to 4.79 percent from 4.76 percent , as prices declined .
 taliban militants are taking advantage of transition from american to nato forces in southern afghanistan to launch largest show of force since 2001 . taliban have fought battles just 20 miles outside kandahar , forcing hundreds of people to abandon their villages as coalition forces resorted to aerial bombardment . taliban have even conducted trials in islamic courts outside official afghan courts . many afghans say they just want one side to bring stability .
 bush camp cut back on spending last month * * bush campaign files report with federal_election_commission showing that pres bush sharply slowed his campaign spending in may , paying out just $ 22 million as he scaled back his television advertising campaign . spent almost $ 50 million in march and about $ 31 million in april to begin blitz of commercials in effort to define sen john_kerry as he emerged from democratic primaries .
 front-page editorial in kuwaiti newspaper al qabas says gulf arabs have obligation to give more aid to people of southeast_asia affected by tsunami because of longstanding ties between two regions . kuwait , which is expected to run budget surplus of $ 10 billion , had pledged $ 2 billion , then raised figure to $ 10 billion after editorial appears . campaign to shut down islamic charities accused of financing terrorism has left many people confused about where to turn when they do want to donate money . in addition , some extremist friday prayer leaders have suggested that tsunami destruction is wrath of god . qatar and saudi_arabia have each pledged $ 10 million , while united_arab_emirates has raised its cash contribution tenfold , to $ 20 million .
 dna evidence sitting in police files since 1968 hs led to arrest of 53-year-old sex offender , jerry_l_bellamy , in rape-murder of 13-year-old jane_durrua , bludgeoned as she walked along railroad tracks between sisters ' homes in middletown , new jersey . efforts by sisters and two detectives credited . photos . bellamy , imprisoned since 2000 as habitual sex offender , became suspect in 2002 after dna profile matched dna found in girl 's underwear .
 pataki administration awards new_york 's largest technology contract to m / a-com , subsidiary of tyco_international , to construct hundreds of radio transmitters across state and create computerized radio system to address persistent communications lapses among emergency response agencies . system is designed to cover 95 percent of state 's land area . transmitters are designed to extreme weather conditions and will enable officials to speak to one another during power failure . administration refuses to discuss cost of system , but industry officials say it will be over $ 1 billion . m / a-com was represented on contract by former sen_alfonse_d ' amato .
 reza k baluchi , who has pedaled bike over six continents and 54 countries in support of peace since fleeing iran , is in immigration and naturalization service detention , florence , ariz , for entering united_states illegally . awaits decision by immigration judge on whether he will be granted asylum or deported to iran . has refused bail offer from members of arizona 's large iranian expatriate community , who express concern for his safety if he is returned to iran . baluchi comments , interview .
 new_york_stock_exchange will appoint john_a_thain , president of goldman_sachs , as its chief executive . is splitting chairman and chief executive posts as part of reform , and john_s_reed , interim chairman and chief executive , may continue as chairman for now . decision is announced by sec chairman william_donaldson , who urged division to keep too much power from being concentrated in hands of one person . thain is technocrat involved in goldman_sach_investments in electronic trading platforms , several of which compete with exchange . photo . he and reed are both mit graduates .
 in senate , new majority is composed of 55 republicans , four more than before but five fewer than needed to break democratic filibuster . while democrats may be forced to cave on some of pres bush 's priorities , they may be unyielding on others . may get help from republicans , particularly those up for re-election in 2006 , who can not afford to anger constituents by pursuing too radical agenda .
 howard_stern , popular radio personality , says he is moving from commercial broadcast radio to sirius satellite radio to escape oversight of federal_communications_commission , which has fined him hundreds of thousands of dollars for his on-air sexual and scatological references . listeners will have to pay $ 12.95 a month to hear him . deal is risky bet by sirius that addition of stern will help concept of pay radio gain national acceptance . it is blow to viacom , whose struggling infinity_broadcasting unit produces and syndicates his show . when stern moves to sirius in jan 2006 , he will trade his regular audience of 12 million people for sirius 's 600,000 current listeners .
 article on what has become game of musical chairs as school districts in westchester_county , ny , face severe shortage of school administrators . survey by new_york_state_council_of_school superintendents , conducted before state retirement incentive in june 2000 , shows that 57 percent of state 's superintendents and 54 percent of school principals plan to retire by 2005 .
 op-ed article by boris_johnson , conservative member of parliament and editor of the spectator magazine , defends prime min tony_blair for casting his lot with america on iraq and explains why blair 's position will not be his political undoing , although he will be weakened . says britain 's security is inextricably linked with america , not europe . says even relationship with french pres jacques_chirac , in apparent tatters , is reparable .
 john_kerry 's advisers say he is planning to announce his running mate on july 6 and is orchestrating elaborate rollout of democratic ticket first on internet , then at rally in pittsburgh and finally in multistate tour beginning in ohio and ending in vice-presidential candidate 's hometown . kerry 's most senior aides say he has not divulged his decision to them . senior democrats identify top three contenders for position as sen john_edwards , rep richard_a_gephardt and gov tom_vilsack . kerry 's aides say placards have been printed teaming kerry with all three men .
 electrodes are implanted in diaphragm of christopher_reeve , actor paralyzed since breaking neck in riding accident eight years ago , in effort to restore ability to breathe naturally . university hospitals of cleveland surgeon dr raymond onders says results are extremely promising . says reeve can breathe without respirator for more than two hours at stretch , compared with 10 minutes before operation , and may be may be able eventually to wean himself permanently from respirator . diagram .
 nearly simultaneous deals united_automobile_workers reached with ford_motor_co and chrysler group represent sharp break with tradition and underscore how tough times are for big three and their suppliers . contracts keep union workers ' generous health care benefits largely intact , but uaw reportedly gives ground on other important issues , including scaling back wage increases and selectively lifting ban on plant closings . union continues talks with general_motors and delphi , parts maker spun off from gm in 1999 .
 newark_housing_authority , which announced layoff of 99 employees this month , spent more than $ 400,000 for new amenities at its six-story headquarters building in past 18 months . purchases included 42-inch plasma television , bathroom vanity and $ 14,000 worth of other audiovisual equipment for office and private bathroom of agency 's executive director harold_lucas . other spending detailed . at same time , housing authority failed to apply for federal funds that would supplement its budget for section 8 housing , federal rent subsidy program . lucas , who refuses to comment on expenditures , reports to newark_housing_authority_commission , whose members are appointed by mayor sharpe_james .
 pentagon is seeking $ 99.7 billion for operations in iraq , afghanistan and elsewhere , request that , if approved by congress , would set annual record for war-related spending . request is in addition to $ 70 billion appropriated in sept . it would push total for 2007 fiscal year to nearly $ 170 billion , 45 percent more than congress provided in 2006 .
 about 3,000 christians have left bethlehem , where they think christ was born , and moved abroad since palestinian uprising began in 2000 . christian emigrants tend to be quite successful in their new homes . bethlehem was more than 90 percent christian until middle of last_century . arab-israeli war of 1948 brought influx of muslim regugees and signaled start of demographic shift . onset of violence four years ago prompted relative flood of emigration .
 nearly 300 state troopers converge on cassadaga , ny , as five-month manhunt for escaped inmate ralph_phillips becomes even more urgent after ambush of two troopers by sniper in woods . police believe that phillips is gunman who critically wounded troopers joseph_a_longobardo and donald_baker jr . manhunt has intensified since june 10 , when another trooper was shot and wounded during traffic stop . search has focused on cassadaga and surrounding towns in chautauqua_county .
 agents for producers howard_deutsch and ridley_scott begin offering all major hollywood studios package of multimedia rights , including movie and ancillary market rights , to encyclopedia brown children 's detective novels . author donald_sobol says he knows nothing of plans to bring books to big screen and wants nothing to do with deutsch . sobol filed $ 20 million suit against deutsch and others in 1983 , which was settled out of court .
 amtrak officials vow to improve response time after power failure disrupts train service in five states and strands thousands of riders for hours . amtrak is severely criticized for slow rescue efforts . power failure stranded new_jersey_transit customers in tunnel owned by amtrak for more than five hours . amtrak continues to investigate cause of power failure .
 roosevelt_island , 800-foot-wide , two-mile-long sliver of land between manhattan and queens , is undergoing transformation . one change facing island 's 10,000 residents is prospect that mitchell-lama subsidized housing will be converted to market rates or undergo condominium conversions . another is arrival of luxury condominiums , beginning with january, 2006 , opening of 18-story riverwalk place , followed by second building , riverwalk landing . ultimately , riverwalk complex will comprise nine buildings with 2,000 residences . in separate project , the octagon , remnant of landmark constructed in 1839 as new_york lunatic asylum , is being reincarnated as 500-unit luxury tower . some residents worry about changes in economic and social profile of population .
 international astronomical union votes in prague to downgrade pluto from planet to dwarf planet . rules that for heavenly body to be planet it must orbit sun , be round as result of force of gravity and have cleared other things out of way in its orbital neighborhood . pluto meets only first two criteria , as do two other dwarf planets : ceres , largest known asteroid , and object known as 2003 ub 313 , nicknamed xena , which is larger than pluto and , like it , orbits beyond neptune in zone of icy debris known as kuiper belt , where there are dozens more potential dwarf planets .
 layoffs are creating glut of office space in boston area . availability of space to lease or sublease was 22.3 percent by end of fourth_quarter 2002 compared to 5.5 percent at end of 2000 . office availability in suburbs is highest on record , 27 percent , versus 6.4 percent in 2000 , and has climbed above 30 percent in some submarkets .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column says bush administration treasury dept has been emasculated by white_house at time when country needs strong treasury secretary capable of speaking up for fiscal sanity . says $ 5 trillion will be added to nation 's cumulative deficit in next decade because of tax cuts and runaway spending . says system works better when president gets choices rather than homogeneity . notes that white_house is looking for someone even weaker than current treasury secretary john w snow to replace him .
 sgt gary_pittman , marine reservist from new_york_city , is convicted in military court at camp_pendleton , calif , of assault and dereliction of duty for his conduct as prison guard in iraq in 2003 . jury finds him guilty of assaulting iraqi prisoners , but acquits him of charges related to killing of prisoner . incidents occurred at camp whitehouse_detention facility outside nasiriya .
 georgia_assn of black elected officials organizes re-creation of 1946 lynching of two black women and two black men by mob of white men in monroe . photo . repr tyrone_brooks calls on atty gen alberto_r_gonzales to investigate , saying he believes as many of five perpetrators are still alive . incident made national headlines at time and pres truman ordered fbi investigation but agents were met with hostile silence .
 travis county , tex , prosecutor ronnie_earle is pursuing case with ties to rep tom delay involving corporate contributions that he says were used to illegally shape texas politics . three successive grand juries have indicted three top fund-raisers and eight corporate givers for contributions to political action committee of texans for a republican majority , group linked to delay and tom_craddick , fellow republican who is speaker of texas_house . charge is funneling hundreds of thousands of dollars in illicit corporate money to republican_state_house candidates in 2002 . delay and craddick have denied wrongdoing and claimed charges are election-inspired . earle points to his record of having prosecuted 12 democratic officials and 4 republican officials .
 dr jiang yanyong , senior retired military physician , says china 's health_ministry is lying about number of people hospitalized in beijing with severe acute respiratory syndrome . says number in military hospitals alone could be ` up to 100 ' . health ministry has reported only 12 cases and 3 deaths in beijing . another doctor , speaking on condition of anonymity , claims there are dozens of patients at one nonmilitary hospital in beijing . fact that so many cases have gone unreported in beijing underscores china 's continuing lack of openness in confronting outbreak that has left 1,279 people ill and killed 53 in china . worldwide , tally is 2,750 infected and 103 dead .
 iraqi shiite cleric ayatollah_kazem_al-haeri , in exile in iran , has begun distancing himself from his protege moktada al-sadr and is urging sadr and interim government to make peace without outside interference . worries support for sadr will tarnish his reputation and deprive him of role in iraq . supports islamic state in iraq . iran formally favors stability but may be working secretly to keep najaf , sadr 's base , from overshadowing shiite center of qom . photo .
 aides to gov george_pataki claim legislature 's new budget understates spending by as much as $ 2.6 billion and will create deficits totaling at least $ 10 billion over next two years . sides do not agree on math or even whether budget was passed in timely fashion . focus of squabble is mainly on medicaid , with pataki citing legislature 's rejection of most of his cuts .
 daniel_m_biechele , who was tour manager for band great white , agrees to plead guilty to 100 counts of involuntary manslaughter and will be sentenced to no more than 10 years in prison . it was biechele who set off fireworks in packed station nightclub in west_warwick , ri , that ignited fire during band 's performance on feb_20_, 2003 . charges against club owners jeffrey and michael_derderian are pending .
 article on preparations necessary to open disney 's broadway musical production tarzan . describes efforts of producer thomas_schumacher , director bob_crowley and aerial designer pichon_baldinu to work out vine swinging flights essential to show . it will be one of the most expensive shows ever mounted on broadway , with budget rumored to be between $ 15 million and $ 20 million .
 some people are finding it is more cost efficient to rent apartments in manhattan , as sales prices breach $ 1 million . stephen_kotler of douglas_elliman_real_estate says 15 to 20 percent of his clients have decided to rent , and firms in rental business are seeing uptick . average rental of one-bedroom apartment is $ 2,333 . other prices noted . rental companies are not offering concessions that they did even six months to one year ago , as market has picked up . scarcity of apartments on market is part of what is driving up cost .
 three men are killed when part of rain-saturated hillside in la conchita , calif , gives way , sending torrent of earth and trees onto four blocks of oceanfront town . about 12 people are missing . town was site of similar but smaller landslide in 1995 . officials call off search for missing people out of fear of further slides . disaster is latest problem caused by rain and snow that have battered california since dec 25 .
 bayer executive lawrence_posner tells texas court that company officials in us recommended against selling anticholesterol drug baycol several years before it was introduced in 1997 , because they doubted sales potential . bayer 's german executives pushed marketing until drug was withdrawn in 2001 after more than 30 deaths were linked to it . posner testifies in suit by hollis_haltom , 82 , who contracted muscle disorder rhabdomyolysis after taking baycol .
 industry groups and labor unions in us petition bush administration to take unorthodox step of suing china for keeping value of its currency fixed against dollar . cite economic and trade data that they claim shows china 's currency is undervalued by as much as 40 percent . say china 's policy amounts to currency manipulation that provides huge subsidy to china 's exports and should be considered violation of international trade laws . bush administration immediately rejects idea .
 justice ronald a zweibel sentences cyril_kendall to 11 to 33 years in prison for creating nonexistent son in order to collect over $ 160,000 in survivor benefits earmarked for world trade center attack victims . orders manhattan district attorney to pursue perjury charges against four kendall children who testified that brother existed .
 claudia_rosett op-ed article urges pres bush not to discard list of 63 nations deemed eligible to bid on prime contracts for rebuilding iraq . holds list is not aimed at rewarding allies or punishing war opponents . says it is predicated on deciding which countries can best be trusted to oversee huge rebuilding contracts in ways that square with united_states goal of promoting stable , free iraq . questions whether russia , france or germany , excluded from list , share goal .
 article on valerie_larosa , jennifer_robinson and other britons who have moved to long_island and been hired because of their english accents . larosa , who started as receptionist at mather_hospital in port_jefferson in 1968 , has had her voice recorded for hospital greetings and messages since 1992 . david_goldberg , president of digital_waterworx , company that produces customized telephone messages , comments .
 many world leaders called to congratulate pres bush on his second term soon after nov 2 election , but german chancellor gerhard_schroder waited three days and french pres jacques_chirac did not call for week . europe and bush , like partners in bad marraige , know they are stuck with each other . both sides now say that election has created delicate new balance of power that may be of mutual benefit .
 host of companies arfe developing anemia drugs to compete against amgen 's epogen and aranesp , which will acount for nearly half of amgen 's expected $ 12 billion in revenues this year . amgen filed patent infringement suit against roche last month . amgen 's annual earnings growth over next five years could be cut by more than 50 percent if roche were to capture half american market . some amgen critics say that while its anemia drugs have helped people , its near monopoly is last much longer than patent law was meant to allow . company has sold about $ 22 billion worth of epogen since its approval in 1989 and $ 7 billion worth of aranesp since 2001 .
 lenders are trying to develop new approaches and policies for guarding against mold in commercial properties that can reduce buildings ' value . insurance industry_institute_economist_robert_j_hartwig says insured losses in recent years for mold damage have risen from $ 700 million in 2000 to $ 3 billion in 2002 . insurance companies , fearing mold could be new asbestos in terms of litigation , no longer cover mold damage in conventional policies . persistent mold problem at hilton hawaiian village in waikiki noted .
 china reports finding deadly strain of avian influenza in fowl in three regions . virus has spread among chickens across asia , infected dozen people in thailand and vietnam and killed at least nine people so far . no human cases have been reported in china . world health organization , united_nations_food_and_agriculture_organization and world organization for animal health appeal for wealthier countries to help pay to compensate farmers for slaughtering tens of millions of chickens to forestall lethal human epidemic .
 us , north_korea and four other nations end three days of negotiations in beijing on north_korea 's nuclear program , and they will push for new round of talks within two months . bush administration officials report that talks , although sometimes fiery , exceeded their expections in some respects and conclude that diplomatic track still offers best hope of resolving crisis . north korean press agency issues bellicose critique of talks .
 new jersey governor-elect jon_s_corzine says state 's projected budget deficit could be as high as $ 6 billion , $ 1 billion increase over previous estimates , in part due to fulfillment of his campaign pledge to increase property taxes by 10 percent . says expected bankruptcy of state_'s_transportation_trust_fund may force increase in gasoline tax that underwrites fund . also says he may make special appointment related to resolving problems at state 's troubled child welfare agency .
 thirty men sign up to fight at toughman boxing competition in estero , fla , first such match in state since young woman died of brain injuries inflicted by much stronger opponent in toughman match in sarasota in june . four people have died from injuries sustained in toughman bouts this year , and at least 10 have died since organization was founded in 1979 . toughman has long been under scrutiny for encouraging novice boxers to go at each other . lawmakers in fla and in other states renew efforts to ban or strictly regulate toughman bouts .
 insurance institute for highway safety reports that increased speed limits on interstate highways has led to nearly 1,900 extra deaths in 22 states from 1996 to 1999 . says people are adjusting to drive above new limits . federal government repealed its speed limits in 1995 and sent authority back to states , 28 of which have raised rural interstate speed limits to at least 70 miles an hour .
 gary_topolewski is leaving chemistri in troy , mich , where he had been chairman and chief creative officer , working on general_motors_corp_brands , for troy office of bbdo worldwide as one of two creative officers . topolewski will collaborate with bill_morden on campaigns for all brands sold by chrysler_group division of daimlerchrysler .
 editorial on desperate situation in new_orleans after hurricane katrina questions whether rescue operations were hampered because so many national_guard members from louisiana and mississippi are fighting in iraq . says lasting lesson that must be drawn from current gulf_coast_misery is that national_guard must be treated as america 's most essential homeland security force , and not to be used for long-term overseas missions .
 tensions flare anew in georgia . new violence is reported in separatist south_ossetia one day after pres mikhail_saakashvili threatens to sink ships approaching other break-away region abkhazia . threat includes ships ferrying russian passengers . russia warns that it would view such action as piracy . there are no immediate reports of casualties in latest flare-ups , but clashes , threats and counterthreats underscore growing tensions in and around georgia as saakashvili 's new government continues its efforts to assert sovereignty over two regions .
 joe_berger westchester journal column on support from local residents shown to michael_love , co-owner of coffee labs roasters in tarrytown , ny . love , who opened cafe with his fiancee , alicia_kelligrew , in may 2003 , has been arrested as fugitive and has returned to florida to face probation violation charges related to crimes he committed in 1994 .
 article on manuscript of scherzo from beethoven 's string quartet in e flat -lrb- op 127 -rrb- , entirely in beethoven 's hand , that sotheby 's plans to auction in london on december 5 . sotheby 's expects manuscript , owned by stifelsen musikkulterens framjande -lrb- foundation for the furthering of music culture -rrb- in stockholm , to bring between $ 1.6 million and $ 2.5 million .
 new_york_city reaches agreement with carnival_cruise_lines and norwegian cruise lines on docking fees that will enable city to go forward with $ 150 million rehabilation_west side passenger ship terminal . will refurbish five berths and three piers , including superberth that can handle enormous cruise ships . will also build new terminal on brooklyn waterfront that will also have giant ship capability . cruise industry is booming , with as many as 10,000 passengers embarking and disembarking daily during may to october cruise season . city is playing catch-up with other deepwater cities that have actively courted industry .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's trip to dubrovnik , croatia for meetings with olympic officials helped lessen gap between new_york_city 's chances and those of other cities competing to host 2012 olympics . bloomberg came off as engaging and interested , and helped build rapport with international_olympic_committee , which will make final decision in july .
 craig_o_mccaw , billionaire communications entrepreneur , is surrendering control of nextel communications as latest step in divestment strategy that started three years ago . nextel says mccaw is expected to remain on board until summer_of 2004 and that term of dennis_weibling , mccaw appointee , will extend into 2005 . nextel also announces addition to its board of independent director stephanie_shern .
 nyc column : antiwar movement of today is sharp contrast from year ago , as invasion of iraq drew near . year ago , many tens of thousands of demonstrators rallied near united_nations , part of worldwide day of protest . nothing since has approached that mass action . demonstration planned for mar 20 may change that .
 three people die of carbon_monoxide poisoning at home in east lyme , conn , including two woman who went to help family they believed had flu . eight residents of house in lakeview , li , are treated for carbon monoxide poisoning , as are three police officers who went to their rescue . both houses had gas-burning furnaces .
 panel commissioned by new_york_city police dept concludes that there was no misconduct in 1989 investigation of central park jogger case , and says five harlem men whose convictions were thrown out by judge had ` most likely ' participated in beating and rape of jogger . panel disputes claim of matias_reyes , convicted killer and serial rapist , that he alone raped jogger . says his confession may have been motivated by prison threats or by wish to transfer to more desirable prison . says dna tests show he raped jogger , but there is no proof he acted alone . suggests reyes and five harlem men assaulted victim , perhaps successively . panel is comprised of two prominent new_york lawyers , michael_f_armstrong and jules_a_martin , and by stephen_l_hammerman , deputy police commissioner for legal affairs . report constitutes police dept 's counterpoint to motion by manhattan dist atty robert_m_morganthau that recommended dismissal of convictions of five men .
 los_angeles area is home to tens of thousands of immigrants from countries hit hardest by earthquake and tsunamis , including india , indonesia , thailand , sri_lanka , bangladesh , malaysia and myanmar . thousands more indians and sri lankans live in san_francisco_bay area . california residents from affected areas have no central place to post messages or share their worry and grief . communicate by telephone and e-mail , read internet blogs and listen to radio programs in their native languages .
 sen john_kerry avoids speaking out on terrorist attacks in spain and fall of government there , departure from his practice of trying to use events of day to bolster his case against pres bush . in speech , he accuses bush of being ` short on action ' in protecting americans against terrorism . other democratic politicians commend kerry 's circumspection . white_house spokesman scott_mcclellan dodges questions about political impact of attack .
 wal-mart , citing high oil prices , announces its smallest quarterly profit growth in four years and warns that its third-quarter earnings will fall short of analyst estimates , disappointing wall street . says second-quarter earnings rose 5.8 percent , to $ 2.8 billion , compared with $ 2.7 billion year earlier . sales for period ended july 31 rose 10.2 percent , to $ 76.8 billion . wal-mart shares drop $ 1.53 , to $ 47.57 .
 anti-syrian coalition 's election victory in lebanon revives religious hostilities that seemed buried after assassination of former prime minister rafik_hariri . hariri 's son saad , a sunni muslim , acknowledges difficulties and dodges questions about whether pres emile_lahoud , ally of syria , would be replaced . hariri 's chief rival is former army commander michel_aoun , maronite catholic whose bloc has 21 seats in parliament . he accuses hariri 's movement of voter fraud .
 recent commerce_department reports confirms business spending on technology is finally gaining momentum across much of us economy . business technology spending has risen more than 15 percent for two consecutive quarters , and may be returning to levels not experienced since early 2000 . key question is whether recent trend is sustainable given that some part of increase is attributable to updating or replacing outdated equipment , and most analysts expect overall information technology spending to moderate to between 4 percent and 6 percent in 2004 . among most positive signs is higher spending on notebook computers with wireless_communications , which is seen as important technology for boosting employee productivity .
 sec condoleezza_rice to urge countries of northeast_asia to create strict system of radiation monitoring and inspections to prevent north_korea from smuggling nuclear materials into or out of country . will ask for efforts to focus on inspections of ships , planes and trucks . efforts seen to cajole china into enforcing new un sanctions . rice begins trip to tokyo , seoul , beijing and moscow by repeating that us has no intention of attacking or invading north_korea .
 executives at chrysler_group 's german parent daimlerchrysler refuse to rule out possibility that chrysler group could be spun off or sold , after chrysler announces it lost $ 1.5 billion in last three months . possibility of such sale is latest sign of upheaval in american auto industry , as three detroit companies to return to profitability .
 protests over suspension of pakistan 's top judge , iftikhar_muhammad_chaudhry , continues in several cities , with riot police and protesters clashing for first time in islamabad and political opposition joining forces with lawyers who have been rallying for days . about 200 protesters are arrested in islamabad , rawalpindi and lahore . gen pervez musharraf suspended chaudhry for reasons that have not been made public .
 profile of and interview with george_christian_newlin , 74 , former lawyer and financial manager who also had brief stint as opera singer , who turned to studying and writing about charles_dickens and his works . m e sharpe has just published four more massive volumes , everyone and everything in trollope , and newlin has begun work on new project , everyone and everything in george_eliot .
 colorado voters approve proposal , over vehement objections of most energy companies , that mandates that 10 percent of state 's electricity must come from wind and solar power by 2015 . amendment 37 makes colorado 18th state with environmentally friendly energy standard , but first one to have bypassed legislature and put rule into place through referendum .
 ailing japanese carmaker mitsubishi_motors , after securing $ 4 billion in emergency financing , is embarking on its second sweeping restructuring in recent years , but analysts say its road to recovery is as long as ever . mitsubishi unveils blueprint to rebuild itself with new investment from mitsubishi group companies and japanese buyout firm , plus an issue of stock to be underwritten by j p morgan chase . mitsubishi_motors chief yoichiro_okazaki declares ` this plan is our last chance for survival ' .
 chinese government admits that cases of dangerous new respiratory disease sars are many times higher than previously disclosed . announcement comes in unusual nationally televised live news conference by deputy health min gao_qiang , who says that as of apr 18 , beijing had 339 confirmed cases and additional 402 suspected cases of disease . new numbers bring total of confirmed cases on mainland china to 1,807 , highest of any country . of these , 79 have ended in death . government also announces that weeklong national may day vacation has been reduced to one day to discourage people from traveling and further spreading disease .
 influx of investment capital from both arab and israeli investors , in roughly equal proportion , makes middle_east second-largest source of foreign investment in united_states commercial real estate this year after europe , where changes in german pension fund laws contributed to surge in investment in american properties . within last year , seven apartment complexes in san_antonio and six more throughout texas were purchased by alon_usa , based in dallas , subsidiary of alon israel oil company . oil companies are major sources of investment in american commercial real estate .
 caryn_james_critic 's notebook column on new hollywood novels and non-fiction books that focus on behind-the-scenes characters . reviews the true and outstanding adventures of the hunt sisters by elisabeth_robinson , the best awful by carrie_fisher , death by hollywood by steven_bochco , down and dirty pictures : miramax , sundance and the rise of independent film by peter_biskind , hollywood animal : a memoir by joe_eszterhas , my last movie star by martha_sherrill , still holding by bruce_wagner and so 5 minutes ago by hilary_de_vries .
 two years ago andrew m cuomo put more than half of his campaign treasury into hedge fund , emtrust_capital_partners_lp , making him one of few new_york politicians to invest campaign money in anything but sure bet . in case of cuomo , democratic candidate for attorney general , hedge fund is direected by one of his largest financial backers , gregg_s_hymowitz , man who has handled cuomo 's personal money . investment of $ 750,000 proved to be all upside , with return of nearly 20 percent after one year . cuomo 's experience is rarity in arena where most campaigns focused on their short-term needs , keep their money in conservative vehicles like savings accounts . cuomo photo .
 north american international auto show opens in detroit amidst fierce battle for market share among us automakers . us makers ' share fell to 60.2 percent in 2003 , down from 61.7 in 2002 , and with no new breakthrough categories in sight companies are targeting rivals ' traditional areas of strength . analysts see general_motors , ford and chrysler division of daimlerchrysler needing to continue aggressive pricing in order to meet industry sales target of 17 million vehicles in 2004 .
 death of staff sgt billy_brown , alaskan national guardsman who is believed to be first eskimo killed because of war in iraq , brings reality of war to town of barrow , alaska . he was killed when tractor trailer slammed into his car while he was on training maneuvers at camp shel by in mississippi . 670 guard members have been called up from alaska , largest foreign deployment ever .
 murder of robert_mccartney at hands of irish_republican_army in belfast , northern ireland , and alleged ira cover-up , creates crisis for sinn fein , ira 's political party , as well as for ira 's rank and file and its leadership . mccartney 's five sisters are demanding that many witnesses to murder come forward . none have done so , mindful of warning from ira . long-time backers in ireland and united_states see furor threatening to strip away old veneer of ` constructive ambiguity ' that allowed ira and sinn fein to claim their leaders had no true ties . in effort to prevent that , sinn fein leader gerry_adams suspends seven party members accused of being involved in killing and , startlingly , he gives names of seven men to police ombudsman . adams also appears with mccartney sisters , ratcheting up pressure for witnesses to come forward .
 article profiles dan_rattiner and jerry_della_femina , both 63 , who are engaged in what della_femina says is shaping up to be ` old-fashioned tabloid war . ` rattiner , who disputes claim , is publisher and editor of weekly free newspaper dan 's papers . della_femina , owner of independent newspaper chain , claims his newspapers have largest circulation on long_island 's east end and that dan 's papers is magazine .
 ukraine_supreme_court overturns result of disputed presidential election , saying it was marred by ` systematic and massive violations , ' and orders new runoff between declared winner prime min viktor f yanukovich and opposition leader viktor a yushchenko by dec 26 . court ruling comes 12 days after tens of thousands of ukrainians began protests in kiev and other cities denouncing what they considered violation of their right to choose successor to departing pres leonid d kuchma .
 guests of laura_bush at state of the union address are selected by white_house as living embodiments of crucial administration policies . most moving part of evening comes when iraqi safia_taleb_al-suhail , seated next to laura_bush , hugs janet_norwood , whose son sgt byron_w_norwood was killed in assault on falluja . profile of suhail . details of pres bush 's day leading up to speech noted . photo . diagram shows guests sitting with laura_bush .
 israeli army raid in gaza_city and second raid in southern_gaza_strip ignite some of fiercest fighting in months , leaving 15 palestinians dead and about 50 injured . israel says raids are response to sustained palestinian rocket and mortar fire from gaza . prime min ariel_sharon said last week that he is considering plans to withdraw most of 7,500 israeli settlers from gaza_strip . palestinians and israelis had predicted that israel would step up operations in gaza before any israeli withdrawal , so that pullout would not be interpreted as sign of weakness .
 five letters comment on joe_berger oct 4 on education column about discontinuation of advanced placement courses at some high schools . prof atina_grossmann , janet_berger , erika_dreifus and carol_lefelt support advanced placement courses . high school student molly_lehmuller says pressure to take several ap classes is wearing students down .
 american military based in northern iraq is driving force in region 's political and economic reconstruction . maj gen david_h_petraeus of army 's 101st airborne div has become dominant political figure in mosul and surrounding areas . he , rather than civilian-led occupation authority in baghdad , worked out agreement between local sheiks and iraqi customs officials to restore trade with syria . from beginning petraeus approached so-called nation-building as central military mission and he was prepared to act when civilian authority in baghdad was still getting organized . under petraeus , 101st established iraqi governing council for city of mosul and larger nineveh province even before l paul_bremer 3d arrived in baghdad . 101st also established employment office for former iraqi military officers , found grain silos for local farmers and trained local police . northern iraq does not present as great a threat as sunni triangle near baghdad , but it does have its dangers and challenges .
 article on traveling bronx_river , which begins in westchester_county and flows 23 miles going through bronx_into_east_river , by canoe with new_york_city parks comr adrian_benepe to see results of recent years of extensive cleanup . city has spent $ 60 million from various government sources on cultivating native vegetation and carting away garbage , including abandoned cars and flotsam and jetsam of generations of neglect .
 article contrasts pres bush 's visit to mainz , germany , with his father 's visit there as president in 1989 as reflecting how less warm german-american relations are now . elder bush addressed enthusiastic audience of 3,500 people who cheered when he spoke of germany and america as partners in leadership . current pres bush is entirely sealed off from ordinary germans during his seven-hour stopover .
 energy department says natural gas price spikes of last_winter will not be repeated in coming months if temperatures are normal . predicts average cost for residential customers of $ 9.17 for each 1,000 cubic feet , up from $ 8.39 last year . says heating oil will sell for average price of $ 1.33 a gallon , same as last year .
 port authority bus terminal in manhattan , which turns 54 on dec_15 , has been described as being as big as aircraft carrier with charm of public lavatory . is world 's busiest bus terminal , handling 57 million riders a year on 2.2 million buses . has weathered 20 years of crime and served as unauthorized shelter to many of city 's homeless . $ 50 million makeover has reduced social and criminal problems and made building somewhat more tolerable for passengers .
 heather timmons_column_on_m_&_c_saatchi 's announcement of initial public offering that is intended to raise 10 million pounds -lrb- $ 18 million -rrb- and values whole company at about 75 million pounds . says announcement sets off disquieting memories of saatchi_&_saatchi 's initial public offering nine years ago and its sad consequences for stockholders . david_kershaw , who left saatchi_&_saatchi with charles and maurice_saatchi , is now one_five partners with them in m_&_c_saatchi and will be chief executive of public company , insists that things will be different this time around .
 author simon_winchester op-ed article notes that he froze in moment of terror after he woke on oct 1 and first words he uttered were ` good morning ' . says ever since he was 4 years old , he has said ` white rabbits ' at moment of waking on first day of every month because his mother told him it would bring good luck . holds that his childhood routine has been broken , to no apparent ill effect , and he has been set free from nearly 60 years of obsession and compulsion .
 antonio palocci , doctor from heartland of brazil 's farm belt and former trotskyite , finds himself presiding over brazil 's most robust economic expansion in decade . thanks to boom in exports , country is on track to post trade surplus this year of almost $ 33 billion , largest on record . economy expanded 6.1 percent in third_quarter_from_year_ago .
 howard mechanic , who is running for prescott , ariz , city council , was fugitive for many years using assumed name after being convicted of tossing of firecracker at antiwar protest ih 1970 . he was later arrested , jailed for 11 months and then pardoned by pres bill_clinton . his vietnam war-era activities have become election issue now in prescott .
 families of british terrorism suspects moazzam_begg and feroz_abbasi_score_united_states plan to try them by military tribunals at guantanamo_bay , cuba , naval base . britain calls on us to conduct tribunals with fairness on issues like access to lawyers , evidence standards and right to appeal . opposes imposition of death penalty . stops short of demanding two be returned home for trial . family of david_hicks , australian seized in afghanistan , confirms he is on list of six guantanamo prisoners likely to be first to face tribunals .
 roadside bomb kills four american soldiers in troubled northern_iraqi_city of samarra while in baghdad , political stalemate over country 's draft constitution stretches into another day . in washington , defense_dept says it will send 700 more troops to iraq to help guard american-run prisons in country . lawyer for saddam_hussein 's deputy prime minister tariq_aziz says aziz refuses to testify against hussein . says he expects aziz to be released soon because he is sure charges against him will not stand in court of law .
 growing number of retirement communities aimed at gay , lesbian , bisexual and transgender population are appearing across country . four communities are currently operating , one is under construction and about 18 more are in planning stages , according to american_society on aging . developments range from 11-year-old resort on carefree blvd , women-only community of manufactured homes and recreational vehicles near fort_myers , fla , to upscale rainbow vision in santa fe , nm , with condominiums priced at $ 270,000 and accompanied by club facilities . conservative estimates are that over-50 gay population in united_states currently numbers more than three million .
 new uncertainties have arisen over british prime min tony_blair 's chances of maintaining his schedule for britain 's entry into euro currency with many britons troubled by prospect of their soldiers fighting in iraq . euro membership has long been issue preoccupying blair and his chancellor gordon_brown , who is believed to be less enthusiastic about euro than blair .
 newark faces fiscal crisis unseen since 1970s , even though it has managed to complete work on $ 720 million budget for 2007 on time and without tax increase . officials must find way to fill $ 180 million shortfall in 2008 budget and are making presentations on problem with corporate executives and economists in region and residents . mayor cory a booker_blames_administration_of_sharpe_james for problems .
 wendy_moonan antiques column on 200th anniversary of samuel_t_freeman_&_co_auction_house in philadelphia , which has been somewhat secret source for art dealers and collectors . secret is out now that freeman 's has published book the vendue masters : tales from within the walls of america 's oldest auction house by ronald_arkell and catherine_saunders-watson .
 newly opened morgan_center in plainview , li , is only preschool in metropolitan area geared exclusively to children with cancer . it was opened by nancy and rod_zuch after they tried unsuccessfully to find school for their cancer-stricken young daughter . eight children are now enrolled . each year , about 200 long_island children under 5 are found to have cancer . treatments that depress their immune system make it impossible for them to attend regular school .
 article on major shareda_hosein , 42 , of quincy , mass , who has been in army reserves for 23 years and is seeking to become first female muslim chaplain in history of us military . dr ingrid_mattson , hosein 's supervisor at hartford seminary and director of islamic chaplaincy program , comments on sensitive political nature of appointment .
 suspicious death of very rev florian j gall , of our lady of lourdes parish in whitehouse station -lrb- nj -rrb- , leads police to somerset medical center -lrb- nj -rrb- nurse charles_cullen , who is accused of giving gall toxic dose of digoxin . cullen has admitted to killing between 30 and 40 patients at hospitals he has worked at over past 14 years .
 seton hall university student sean_ryan and former student joseph_t_lepore are charged with arson and murder in dormitory fire that killed three students in jan 2000 . photos . more than fifty other students were injured . essex_county , new jersey , prosecutors also charge four others , including lepore 's parents and sister , with obstructing investigation . two , who were freshmen roommates , allegedly set fire to poster on couch made of highly flammable foam that filled dormitory with smoke . building had no sprinklers .
 sen john_kerry 's campaign is filing complaint with federal_election_commission accusing swift boat veterans for truth , group that is attacking kerry 's vietnam war record , of violating campaign laws by coordinating its activities with bush campaign . group , which received some of its initial financing from republicans with ties to pres bush and his family , is made up of veterans who served in vietnam , but only one was on river patrol boat that kerry commandered . many of their claims have been called into question .
 article by novelist brian_keith_jackson , harlem resident , describes face of harlem today and compares it with works by african-american artist romare_bearden , who moved to neighborhood in 1920 's . some of bearden 's works , dating from 1941 to 1986 , will be on view at whitney museum over next few months .
 op-ed article by james_laney and jason_t_shaplen says bush administration was right to participate in talks in beijing last_week over how to resolve serious threat posed by north_korea 's nuclear program . says pres bush should resist hard-liners who have set unrealistically high bar for success : that north_korea unilaterally dismantle its nuclear program completely before us even considers subsequent talks about security , non-aggression pact or economic support . says policy of engagement is only sensible approach for washington , not only to avoid military confrontation , but also to prevent serious and lasting damage to america 's relationships with pacific allies .
 david_kang op-ed article says if united_states continues to offer nothing but demand that north_korea abandon its nuclear program , multilateral talks will be useless and presence of china , russia , south_korea or japan will make no difference . says bush administration must decide on a coherent policy that offers incentives .
 new_york_city_district_council_of_carpenters_pension_fund_asks_state_supreme_court in manhattan to evict hot 97 -lrb- wqxt-fm -rrb- from 395 hudson street , building owned by fund . says it has spent nearly $ 1 million on enhanced security after numerous incidents , some involving violence , at building . legal action is aimed at parent company emmis_broadcasting and also names three other radio stations in building .
 virginia postrel economic scene column on william_w_lewis 's book the power of productivity , which deals with why some certain countries prosper . says book helps explain why american economy has done better -- and europe and japan have done worse -- than most people predicted in late 1980 's . also offers simultaneously hopeful and depressing view of economic conditions in poor countries , focusing on brazil , india and russia .
 farnsworth_house , plano , ill , designed by mies_van_der_rohe and acknowledged to be one of most important modernist residences anywhere , is offered for sale by lord peter_palumbo at sotheby_'s . consortium of preservationist groups that includes landmarks preservation council of illinois and national_trust_for_historic_preservation , will bid .
 jury convicts joseph_c_massino , alleged boss of bonanno crime family , on 11 federal racketeering counts involving seven murders and host of other crimes . verdict is key victory for federal prosecutors in their decades-long war of attrition against new_york mob . massino , when he was arrested last year , was only boss of new_york 's five cosa_nostra families who was not in prison . us atty roslynn_r_mauskopf says probe that led to his conviction has resulted in charges against over 60 others , many of whom have pleaded guilty .
 times square property owners susan_rosenberg and group led by joseph_bernstein object to efforts by developer douglas_durst and state to condemn their properties to make way for new 57-story bank_of_america headquarters . empire state_development_corp will hold hearing about project , first step toward condemnation . rosenberg and bernstein say they would prefer to negotiate than have government intervene . call condemnation outrageous and unnecessary .
 profile of brothers arthur and larry_kramer . larry_kramer 's wrenching autobiographical 1985 play the normal heart , about aids in new_york , made his brother arthur face of evil in uncaring world , but 20 years after play brothers have become close collaborators on gay rights issues . reconciliation came when arthur accepted that larry was not going to change . arthur_kramer 's law firm was among firms arguing for gay marriage before new_york_supreme_court last month .
 article on growing mistrust and resentment by local businesses and residents to thousands of day laborers , mostly hispanic men , who congregate each day on new jersey streets waiting for work . local governments and police departments , noting that anti-loitering ordinances have been struck down in case after case , say there is little they can do . efforts to establish indoor sites where immigrant laborers can gather have been less than successful . state 's foreign-born population rose 53 percent between 1990 and 2000 .
 revolt by eight retired morgan_stanley executives against leadership of philip_j_purcell can be seen as death rattle of wall street era personified by well-born ivy league-educated investment bankers who formed core of morgan_stanley during its heyday in 1970 's and 80 's and who now regret 1997 merger with dean witter and believe that purcell has desecrated morgan_stanley name . essence of divide between plebian dean witter and patrician_morgan_stanley is captured by contrasting personalities of purcell and s parker_gilbert_jr , chairman of morgan_stanley from 1984 to 1990 and one of leading spokesman of eight executives .
 number of new_york_city residents receiving welfare fell to 402,281 in march 2006 , lowest number since december 1964 and decline of nearly two-thirds from peak of nearly 1.2 million in march 1995 . drop comes nearly 10 years after federal overhaul that imposed 5-year limit on assistance , established work requirement and gave states discretion in setting welfare policy .
 china 's grain production is falling as urbanization is claiming farmland at alarming rate and more farmers are turning to lucrative cash crops or raising livestock . government is concerned that trend threatens longstanding goal of 95 percent self-sufficiency in rice , wheat and corn . production of those staples was down 18 percent in 2003 from record 486 million tons in 1998 . government is offering incentives to grain farmers , developing new strains of rice , and seeking to curb illegal development .
 france 's le monde newspaper dismisses longtime television columnist daniel_schneidermann for publishing book the media nightmare . part of book bemoans failure of le_monde 's top editors to respond adequately to charges detailed in pierre_pean and philippe_cohen 's the hidden face of le_monde , one of four recently published books critical of newspaper .
 calvin_r_darden jr , stockbroker with array of celebrity clients and taste for high living , now faces charges of stealing $ 4.1 million from three of firms he worked for -- smith_barney , wachovia and aic_ltd -- as well as 87-year-old woman . may face lawsuits seeking return of funds invested with him by hip-hop star nelly and nba star latrell_sprewell . people involved in investigation say darden started out with best intentions but embarked on string of deceptions when his career began to fail , taking money from one investor to pay off next until whole enterprise collapsed like ponzi scheme .
 summer performing arts festivals throughout france are being threatened by workers protesting deal between three unions and french employers ' association that would reduce unemployment benefits to 8 months from 12 for part-time workers . police storm theater in caen and evacuate 100 strikers staging sit-in . montpellier dance festival and performances at comedie_francaise and several other paris theaters are cancelled .
 irwin_donovan is shot to death in vestibule of his apartment building in brooklyn one day after arguing with woman who injured his 3-year-old son in bicycle accident . venette gantt , boy 's mother and donovan 's fiancee , says he was shot after woman , sandra_griffith , returned with three men , one of them holding a gun .
 air_force review of sheppard_air_force base in texas , major training base where two dozen women reported they were assaulted two years ago , finds most military students there feel they are in safe working and living environment . survey team also finds 90 percent of trainees believe military leadership has handled sexual assault reports properly .
 paul_hamm stages one of biggest comebacks in olympic history , going from fourth to first in final rotation to become first american man to win olympic all-around gold medal in gymnastics . after disastrous landing on vault sends him stumbling off mat , his spectacular performances on his final two events -- parallel bars and high bar -- earn him two consecutive 9.837 ` s . his final score of 57.823 is 12-thousandths of point ahead of south_korea 's kim_dae_eun . kim 's teammate yang tae young finishes third with score of 57.774 . earlier , hamm and his twin brother morgan helped united_states men 's team win silver , american men 's first olympic team medal in 20 years .
 consulting firm alvarez_&_marsal is heavily criticized when restructuring of student bus routes in new_york_city results in chaos during implementation . plan was put into effect to drive down costs . schools chancellor joel_i_klein is criticized for awarding firm $ 15.8 million no-bid contract . alvarez_&_marsal , which revamped st louis , mo , school bus system in 2003 , receives mixed assessment of its work from st_louis parents and officials .
 secretary of state colin_powell , in tbilisi for inauguration of georgian president mikhail_saakashvili , assures russia that american friendship for georgia is not threat to russian interests . dismisses russian concerns about presence of 80 to 200 american military trainers in georgia since mid-2002 . insists those troops are helping georgians combat terrorists who threaten russia . says upcoming talks in moscow will show russia and us ` can cooperate in areas where people might think we should be in competition ' .
 downtown arts groups , three years after lower_manhattan_development_corp promised to develop ` critical mass of dynamic , enticing and diverse ' cultural venues in downtown manhattan , are pessimistic over prospects . lower manhattan_cultural_council , nonprofit advocacy organization , says number of cultural groups below canal street has plummeted to 112 from 200 before 9/11 . $ 45 million set aside to help cultural groups that are not part of master plan at ground zero expand or move has yet to be distributed .
 classified information on saddam_hussein 's efforts to obtain uranium revealed by vice pres dick_cheney 's chief of staff i lewis_libby to former new_york_times reporter judith_miller on authority of pres bush was already being discredited by administration officials . finding sheds light on how bush and some top deputies had begun to pull in different directions . events took place at time_when_administration 's failure to find illicit weapons in iraq had raised serious questions about credibility of pre-war intelligence .
 nickelodeon enterprises , which licenses products like spongebob squarepants doll , is fastest-growing segment of business in viacom 's mtv networks family . division generated about $ 2.5 billion in retail sales in 2002 , up about 19 percent over previous year while sales of its bigger competitors disney and warner_brothers were relatively flat . spongebob products recorded retail sales of about $ 700 million , far exceeding nickelodeon 's initial expectations of $ 500 million . success of other licensed products discussed . nickelodeon enterprises president jeffrey_d_dunn comments .
 courtney love pleads guilty to disorderly conduct in case that began during her rock concert at plaid nightclub in greenwich_village in march , when she pitched microphone stand into crowd , hitting fan , gregory_burgett . manhattan criminal court judge_melissa_jackson orders love to pay burgett 's $ 2,236 medical bill , keep out of trouble for one year and participate in drug treatment program . love photo .
 boeing_co 's chief executive harry c stonecipher says he expects boeing and federal government could move as early as end of february toward reaching settlement of several ethics probes into company 's dealings with pentagon . stonecipher says settlement will probably occur after feb_18 settlement of former boeing chief financial officer michael m sears , central figure in conflict-of-interest scandal involving boeing and billions of dollars in pentagon contracts .
 beijing capital land is building 2,700-unit luxury apartment complex inspired by manhattan 's upper_east side in northeastern_beijing . first 1,024 units have been completed and are largely sold out . executive director tang_jun , visiting new_york to meet with investors , comments . developers alex and andrew_silverman plan to convert long_island_city , queens , industrial building with views of manhattan skyline into 238 luxury apartments .
 google tops wall street expectations and posts sharply higher profit in third_quarter . earned $ 381 million , up more than sevenfold from its $ 52 million year earlier . revenue was $ 1.6 billion , up 96 percent from $ 805.9 million year ago . google 's shares hit record $ 335 in after-hours trading , up from $ 303.20 closing price in regular trading . chief executive eric e schmidt comments .
 board of trustees in rye_brook , ny , votes 4 to 0 to tighten height , bulk and setback restrictions on new houses in byram_ridge section of town in effort to rein in mcmansions . also moves to limit subdivisions and head off dense development by increasing minimum lot size . voters in briarcliff_manor are slated to decide whether to authorize village to borrow $ 4 million to finance 6,600-square - foot addition to its library . library director geraldine_mahoney says library could close if measure fails .
 nicholas_zimmerman and steven_finley are charged with attempting to escape from new_york 's sing sing prison last spring in elaborate plan that involved at least seven people , including three of zimmerman 's gilfriends , one of whom , quangtrice_wilson , was guard at sing sing , and two men hired by women to help with escape . confederates are also charged . series of mishaps , including panic attack , suspicious-looking badge and run-in with astute police officer , derailed three attempts and ultimately led investigators to unravel plot .
 loving county , tex , is emptiest county in us . 16 people make mentone , county seat , their home and 55 more are spread throughout rest of loving county 's 645 square miles . sheriff billy_burt_hopper wants to arrest lawrence_edward_pendarvis , bobby y emory and don_b_duncan , libertarians accused of tryng to move in enough people to control local government , but they have left state .
 article on contrasts in budget hikes sought by school districts on long_island this year . brentwood , one of island 's poorest districts , is seeking 5.9 percent increase that would maintain existing programs but add nothing new . locust_valley , by contrast , proposes tax increase of 9.4 percent to fund several new programs .
 preservation hall , mecca and sanctuary of traditional new_orleans jazz since early 1960 's , reopens in new_orleans eight months after hurricane katrina . events at hall 's reopening are kicked off by press conference for music rising , campaign by u2 guitarist edge with purpose of replacing instruments of gulf_coast_musicians . allan_jaffe , who with his wife sandra established preservation hall , comments .
 weather conditions this year have made rhine_river , often called europe 's watery main street , a dangerous road . river burst its banks in jan after heavy rains , leaving towns under three feet of muddy water . in sept , after arid summer , it all but dried up , turning one of europe 's most critical shipping routes into gantlet . officials watching over rhine debate whether flood or drought is bigger headache .
 france is selling dozens of historic properties in paris and provinces , using proceeds to move government bureaucrats into less expensive properties and to help pay off national debt . has unloaded dozens of chateaus , villas and ` hotels particulars , ' stone mansions of paris 's golden age . foreigners , primarily american pension funds and private equity firms , are biggest buyers so far . soon on block will be hotel majestic , once huge luxury hotel in central paris that hitler seized for his military government headquarters in occupied france . france 's foreign_ministry took over building after war and used it for diplomacy . france spends 2 billion to 3 billion euros -lrb- $ 2.65 billion to $ 4 billion -rrb- each year to maintain properties . some properties detailed .
 john_r_wright , engineer at jet propulsion laboratory in pasadena , calif , is man behind the wheels of one of two rovers now exploring surface of mars . says his rover , spirit , could go faster than its official top speed , 0.1 mph , if it needed to hurry . six-wheeled , 384-pound vehicle cost $ 414 million .
 scientists and researchers from stevens_institute_of_technology plan to drop battery-powered , unmanned underwater vehicle into hudson_river in may to monitor and forecast currents and search for environmental and chemical changes in water . vehicle could one day be used to prevent terrorist attacks on harbors or on naval vessels . project is just one that stevens oversees for navy and marine_corps .
 daniel gross economic view column holds current focus on brazil , russia , india and china as hotspots that may directly affect american economy may be overshadowing some of world 's slower-growing , established economies that are us 's longtime trading partners . experts describe how us trade and financial relations with europe and japan continue to be significant to us economy .
 economic boycott placed on south_carolina by naacp to force removal of confederate flag from state_house grounds poses dilemma for democratic presidential candidates . three candidates -- rep richard a gephardt and sens_john_kerry and joseph_i_lieberman -- say they will spend campaign money in state despite boycott , arguing that it would be hard to win state 's pivotal primary without doing so . sen john_edwards and rev_al_sharpton will honor boycott . dr howard_dean says he is still deciding what to do and will defer to black advisers in state .
 interview with theater director peter_brook , 80 , who is staging ` theatrical research ' piece tierno_bokar , written by his longtime associate , marie-helene_estienne . work , about muslim philosopher and teacher , is being shown at retrofitted gym at barnard_college , part of residency sponsored by columbia_university art initiative , barnard and harlem arts alliance .
 democrats , buoyed by outlook for clean win for sen john_kerry in tennessee presidential primary , see improved chance of defeating pres bush in state in nov . rep harold e ford jr of tennessee , kerry 's national campaign co-chairman , says kerry 's ability to beat southerners sen john_edwards and gen_wesley_k_clark in state would show southern voters could support northener and not automatically vote for bush .
 british troops remain on edge in wake of riots that have shaken basra , iraq , for two days . 21 british soldiers are either stabbed or wounded by thrown bricks or rocks during riots . more unrest is feared if fuel supplies and electric service does not improve quickly . american soldier is killed and two others wounded by homemade bomb north of baghdad . another soldier is killed and one wounded when their vehicle strikes homemade bomb south of tikrit .
 texas gov rick_perry says he has signed bill for new redistricting map . political scientists identify 8 of 17 texas democrats in congress whose seats seem at risk under remapping . one of those , rep martin_frost , says changes are harmful enough to minority voters to require rejection by justice_dept or courts .
 united_states presents north_korea with proposal for phasing out its nuclear program in exchange for aid and security guarantees . senior bush administration officials acknowledge they are softening their hard-line stance on opening day of six-nation nuclear talks in beijing . last summer , pres bush ruled out any benefits to north_korea before it completely abandons its nuclear program . north_korea seems likely to push for considerably longer timetable for phasing out its weapons program than us has proposed .
 public confidence in canada 's national_health_care_system is being eroded by growing complaints about long lines for diagnosis and surgery , as well as widespread ` line-jumping ' by affluent and connected . it has become leading issue for next year 's national election . recent government study indicates that 4.3 million canadian adults -- 18 percent of those who saw doctor in 2001 -- reported they had difficulty seeing doctor or getting test or surgery done in timely fashion . canada spends $ 66 billion a year on health care , but budget cutbacks since early 1990 's have impeded efforts to keep health care up to date .
 conviction of dr william_sybers , since overturned , for 1991 murder of his wife , kay , in panama city , fla , demonstrates risks of relying on scientific evidence and inferring too much from defendant 's admitted adultery . sybers insists on his innocence , but has pleaded guilty to mansalughter in exchange for sentence of time served , two years . harry_shorestein , state prosecutor who pursued sybers for five years before bringing him to trial , now admits scientific evidence he presented that sybers poisoned his wife was wrong , although he believed it to be valid at time , but he says he could retry sybers even without it . special prosecutor has been named to investigate shorstein 's conduct in case . syber photo .
 exhumations of five bodies in area surrounding sumbal in indian-administered kashmir force indian government to face anew long-simmering charges of abuse by indian soldiers and police . one of bodies was that of local carpenter , and not anti-indian pakistani militant as indians had originally claimed . four police officers are under arrest in connection with carpenter 's killing . kashmiris have long accused indian authorities of disappearances and extrajudicial killings . india blames pakistan for aiding and arming insurgents . pakistan denies charge , and does not recognize india 's claim to kashmir , which has been center of strife for 60 years .
 bush administration says participants in group of 8 summit meeting at sea_island , ga , in june will issue sweeping declaration favoring democratic changes in middle_east . declaration was recently improved by suggestions from several arab countries , although saudi_arabia , kuwait , morocco , egypt and pakistan have spurned invitations to meeting . declaration now calls for renewed efforts to end arab-israeli conflict and acknowledges existing efforts for change . arab league gave modest endorsement for democratic change .
 securities regulators release part of recording of coversation between healthsouth 's two senior executives , richard_m_scrushy , chairman and chief executive , and william_t_owens , former chief financial officer , who recorded it secretly as part of undercover operation conducted by fbi . on tape , owens expresses concern about signing off on healthsouth 's financial statements , and scrushy urges him to ` go down fighting ' to maintain company 's profitability .
 article on clive_davis , 71 , longtime record executive who was forced four years ago to relinquish control of arista records , which he founded in 1974 . davis was recently named chief executive of bmg_north_america , which restored arista to his portfolio . caps comeback by hosting pre-grammy awards party at beverly_hills hotel .
 edward_hayes and bruce_cutler , former lawyers for convicted_murderers_louis_eppolito and stephen_caracappa , appear in court in new_york_city to answer charges by eppolito and caracappa that they were convicted because hayes and cutler bungled their defense . move by eppolito and caracappa is part of seeking new trial .
 fannie_mae agrees to sell $ 5 billion of preferred stock to large institutional investors in rush to meet its regulator 's minimum capital requirements . company is selling two types of preferred strock , allowing it to make up estimated $ 3 bilion shortfall to satisfy minimum capital standards imposed by office of housing enterprise oversight . fannie_mae director donald_b_marron says placement of preferred stock is key component of fannie_mae 's capital retoration plan -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 new_york_city police file charges against forrest bloede , acquaintance and former fraternity brother of murder victim burke_o'brien , but then drop charge and release him at request of manhattan district attorney . bloede gives statement detailing movements of group that went out together night of murder . says two black men accosted them as they returned home . another witness says he saw confrontation between two men , one of whom was wearing ski hat like bloede 's but saw no one else .
 united_american_land has undertaken soho mews , luxury residential development project on largest buildable site left in soho section of manhattan . united 's owners , brothers_albert , jason and jody_laboz , are local residents who worked closely with community and city to ensure approval of plans . soho mews is only second project to go through permitting process that was implemented in 2003 to address specific zoning and design issues specific to area .
 vimpel-communications makes $ 5 billion stock and debt offer for ukraine 's largest telecommunications operator kyivstar . bid brings attention to dispute between vimpelcom 's largest stockholders russian alfa_group and telenor stemming from last_summer 's acquisition by vimpelcom_of_ukranian_radio_systems . purchase of ukraine 's fourth-largest cellular telephone operator left telenor competing against itself .
 biotechnology companies are being acquired for their cash rather than for their technology . 22 percent of industry 's publicly traded biotechnology companies have market values lower than their cash levels , making it tempting for others to acquire them . dendreon last week said it would pay $ 73 million in stock for corvas_international , which had $ 90.5 million in cash at end of december . britain 's cambridge antibody technology and celltech are bidding against each other for oxford_glycosciences , with both companies offering less than oxford 's cash . such deals are starting to raise some shareholder concern .
 harvey_araton sports of the times_column_discusses_los_angeles_lakers guard kobe_bryant , who seems to have relieved tension with his mentor and lakers coach phil_jackson . bryant scored 81 points in game against toronto raptors . column discusses boston red sox general manager theo_epstein 's equally stormy relationship with his mentor and red_sox president larry_lucchino .
 sen joseph_i_lieberman suggests that ned_lamont 's plan to pull troops out of iraq by fixed date would constitute ` victory ' for extremists like those who plotted to blow up planes in england that were headed for united_states . lamont . challenging lieberman for his seat in connecticut , denounces remarks , as do some other democrats . increasingly bitter campaign is centering on iraq war .
 williams safire op-ed column recalls his column of nov_15_, 2001 , two months after sept 11 terror attacks , warning that pres bush was abusing his power when he issued executive order cracking down on suspected terrorist captives . praises supreme_court for its ruling affirming that prisoners -- whether us citizens or not -- have right to be heard in court .
 glen_ringersen , former employee of a holly_patterson extended care facility in garden_city , li , accuses nursing home of ignoring reports that mold growths in basement had made him and other employees sick . andre amin says he believes mold somehow contributed to death of his wife , carole_morrell-amin , who worked at nursing home in early 1990 's and died of lung cancer in march 2000 .
 nearly every stock fund category worked out well for investors in first_quarter_of 2006 . small-company stocks did not cede leadership to blue chips , as many strategists had predicted . standard & poor 's 500-stock index surged 4.2 percent in quarter , nearly matching its total return for all of 2005 . morningstar says average general domestic equity fund returned 6.2 percent in quarter . foreign stock portfolios rose 10.3 percent on average , in quarter . average diversified emerging-market fund rose 12.3 percent , while average latin american funds soared 17.4 percent .
 article on class-action suit filed in new_york_state_supreme_court by smithtown lawyer jonathan_scott against village of oldfield , ny , for maintaining constabulary that has been illegally stopping motorists on public roads and issuing traffic tickets . scott_maintains_oldfield and patchogue irrevocably signed over policing powers to suffolk_county police department in late 1950 's .
 bush administration and russia remain divided on whether united_nations_security_council should take step toward imposing penalties on iran by labeling its nuclear activities threat to world peace . leading european countries are siding with united_states . russia is concerned us will use resolution to confront iran in same way that it did iraq . us and european diplomats stress that any future penalties against iran would be structured to avoid strangling iranian economy and stirring anti-western sentiment among ordinary iranians .
 new york times / cbs_news poll finds saddam_hussein 's capture has boosted americans ' view of state of nation and of pres bush 's performance , while at least momentarily halting what had been spiral of concern about nation 's economic and foreign policy . finds americans are still worried that united_states forces will be mired in iraq for years , fear attacks on american troops will continue and say bush has no plan for exiting iraq . 60 percent say us is as vulnerable to terrorist attack as before capture . respondents who say war is going well jumped from 47 percent just before capture to 64 percent just after . bush 's approval rating jumped from 52 percent to 58 percent .
 long , steep fall in property values wipes out savings of generation of homeowners in hong_kong , feeds political unrest and causes deflation that makes japan 's falling prices pale by comparison . hong kong_monetary_authority says 22 percent of all residential mortgages are now larger than current value of properties they finance , a 14 percent jump in just one year . members of hong_kong middle class , not banks , have borne brunt of decline in prices .
 jodi_wilgoren political points column notes ladies of the bar , members of sen john_kerry 's boston_college_law_school class of 1976 , have raised more than $ 100,000 to support his campaign . notes campaign workers for kerry 's former democratic rivals are finding ways to remain active . notes kerry 's ` ground logistics coordinator ' patrick_shearns has portfolio that matches what others have called ` baggage boy ' .
 effort by shareholders to get sprint_corp to drop auditor ernst_&_young_falls_short . sprint 's new chairman-chief executive gary d forsee , noting size of opposition vote , says he will review matter . shareholder advocates have called on sprint to dismiss accounting firm because it sold tax-avoidance advice to previous chief executive william t esrey and former president ronald_t_lemay , helping them save more than $ 100 million on taxes . 38 percent of shareholders vote to oust ernst_&_young .
 independent commission investigating sept 11 terrorist attacks rejects white_house 's strict conditions for interviews with pres bush and vice pres cheney and also requests again that national security adviser condoleezza_rice testify in public . speaker dennis_hastert backs 60-day extension for final report , to july 26 . denies blocking extension because of republican fears of embarrassing pres bush during re-election campaign .
 united_states government contract officers plan in coming days to give american companies contracts to rebuild iraq , task experts say could eventually cost $ 25 billion to $ 100 billion . bush administration stresses american generosity and farsightedness . its decision to invite only american companies to bid has added to profound international divisions surrounding war . top priority is rebuilding of umm qasr , iraq 's only deep-water port .
 earthquake on oct 8 rumbled practically under line that has divided kashmiri families for 50 years , crushing everything on either side except legacy of mistrust . it ushered in despair that even kashmiris who have survived three wars in last half-century have not known before . kashmiris on either side still have no way to communicate with their relatives across line . rift over kashmir tests creation myth of india and pakistan . pakistan was founded as homeland for south_asia ' a muslims , and it considers kashmir , region with muslim majority , to be rightfully its own . india , with largely hindu population , sees itself as secular democracy able to protect its religious minorities . kashmir is its only muslim-majority province . india has never followed through on its promise to hold plebiscite to allow kashmiris right to choose whether to belong to india or pakistan . india accuses pakistan of arming guerrillas on indian side of kashmir .
 military authorities investigating possible security lapses at guantanamo_bay , cuba , detention camp widen inquiry to include enlisted navy sailor , who is not identified . recent arrests of army chaplain capt james j yee and air_force interpreter airman ahjamad i al-halabi on suspicion of spying for syria have jolted officials in washington and at guantanamo .
 article on buenos aires-born singer-songwriter kevin_johansen and louisiana-born novelist anna_kazumi_stahl , who are both experiencing success in argentina . johansen returned to buenos aires after living for decade in new_york . has hit cd that includes popular english-language single and is slated to perform in new_york and tour spain . stahl , who spoke no spanish when she arrived in buenos_aires 15_years_ago , has written novel , flores de un solo dia . photos .
 on stage and off column . producer kevin_mccollum comments on reports that his puppet musical avenue q , with glowing reviews , will move from vineyard theater to bigger_house . new_york theater workshop to co-produce flow by rapper will power , in collaboration with new_york_city hip-hop theater festival . ensemble studio theater to begin annual short-play marathan . john_guare comments . photo . wooster group extends brace up ! run . gerald_gutierrez replaces zoe_caldwell as producer of cat on a hot tin roof for tennessee_williams_festival at kennedy_center in june 2004 .
 article , exploring possibility that democratic tide may sweep as many as six new_york republicans out of house of representatives this fall , focuses on relative strength of republican sue kelly in state 's 19th congressional district . republicans still outnumber democrats in district that has been tacking to left lately . kelly is six-term incumbent who analysts say is not as vulnerable as some of her republican colleagues . six democrats have lined up to run against kelly .
 john_j_rigas is convicted on charges of conspiring to loot hundreds of millions of dollars from company he built , adelphia_communications , and his son , timothy_j_rigas , is convicted of conspiracy and fraud . jurors fail to reach verdict on another rigas son , michael_j_rigas , and are ordered by judge to continue deliberations . fourth defendant , michael_c_mulcahey , company 's former director of internal reporting , is acquitted on all counts . convictions are substantial victory for government . case was about apparent inability of rigases to draw line between their personal interests and those of company , which elder rigas , son of greek immigrants , founded in 1952 with $ 300 investment and built over five decades into nation 's sixth-largest cable company . adelphia was operated as private company until 1986 . case recalled .
 mutiny is brewing within israeli prime min ehud olmert 's party , as avigdor_itzhaki , chairman of israel 's kadima_party 's representatives , plans to call for olmert 's resignation in wake of critical report about his performance in summer 2006 war against hezbollah in lebanon . itzhaki is believed to be working on behalf of those who support replacing olmert with present foreign minister tzipi_livni .
 analysis on whether $ 550 billion in tax cuts and fiscal initiatives proposed by bush adminstration will created more than one million jobs that administration claims . says state of economy -- including any action taken by federal_reserve , whose chairman alan_greenspan said that economy is already on its way to stronger growth -- could determine extent of plan 's success . holds economists have already begun to question some of assumptions underlying estimate of million new jobs .
 fadl ibrahim mohammed and mohammed_gomaa_ali are among first sudanese people to be given refuge in us since darfur region erupted in violence in 2003 . federal judge_mirlande_tadal has granted their request for political asylum , ending their five months of limbo in elizabeth , nj , detention center . immigration advocates hail tadal 's decision as rare victory for two survivors of government-condoned violence in darfur , which bush administration has described as genocide / .
 boldface names . rift between chef douglas_rodriguez , who is leaving chicama and pipa , and his replacement andrew_dicataldo discussed . former new_york_city_supreme_court justice bruce_m_wright , who earned nickname turn ` em loose bruce in 1970 's , is working part time as greeter at wal-mart in old saybrook , conn .
 ferry carrying over 1,400 passengers and crew , most of them egyptian laborers returning from saudi_arabia , sinks in red sea about 40 miles off coast of egypt , and only 324 people have been rescued . spokesman for pres hosni_mubarak_of_egypt raises questions about ferry 's safety measures , including whether it had enough lifeboats . ferry , al_salam_boccaccio 98 , was traveling between duba , saudi_arabia , and safaga , egypt .
 boards of nissan and renault vote to explore historic three-way alliance with general_motors . decision by gm_board , slated to meet on july 7 , will determine whether talks on alliance move forward . nissan and renault action lends new weight to challenge to gm chief executive rick_wagoner , who has rebuffed earlier challenges to his leadership and taken drastic action to try to turn gm around .
 seven letters comment on sara_bennett and nancy_kalish june 19 op-ed on school ` vacation homework ' . marvin_pollock says consistent practice is key to high achievement in anything , including academics . craig_hanoch wants students to spend vacations reading and writing . jennifer prost says not all summer homework is bad . suzy maroon says skills learned in school slip during vacation . julia_collins says moderation is essential in vacation homework assignments . ellen_schleifer says having fun being kid is more important than homework . elizabeth p ueland supports vacation homework .
 long island journal column . european copper beech tree planted 150 years ago at sagamore_hill , theodore_roosevelt 's family home in cove neck , ny , is being cared for by f a bartlett tree expert co arborist neil_hendrickson . david_milarch , co-founder of champion_tree_project_international , plans to clone tree for its historic botany collection . deborah_capone of montauk , who adopted chinese baby girl three years ago , starts as simple as that , publishing company specializing in children 's media with interactive web site for adults and children from nontraditional families . is also producing book series on subject .
 major german investors says they will continue to do business with russia in wake of arrest of mikhail_khodorkovsky , chairman of russian oil company yukos , on fraud and tax evasion charges . experts believe midsize companies will delay plans to invest until legal controversy over yukos subsides . germany , which is particularly reliant on imported russian natural gas , buys 20 percent of russia 's overall exports , and accounts for 8 percent of total $ 19.4 billion in country 's cumulative foreign investment .
 thomas b edsall op-ed column holds that democrats won on nov 7 by carrying 59 percent majority of independent , moderate voters angered by iraq war and republican corruption . says these voters demonstrated 12 years ago that they can easily turn against democrats . contends that democratic party can secure its 2006 gains , but to do so will require abandoning decades-long willingness to indulge pressure groups on left that no longer command broad popular allegiance .
 communications workers of america spokesman candice_johnson says qwest_communications has agreed to pay $ 250 million to settle_securities_and_exchange_commission investigation into its accounting practices . company spokesman bob_toevs says only that qwest is continuing to cooperate with sec and justice_department investigations . analysts say settlement would be significant step toward resolving qwest 's management mistakes .
 wes_westley , chief executive of smg_management , which handles daily operations of more than 100 convention centers and stadiums across country , may prove to be major roadblock in plan by new_york_islanders principal owner charles_wang and nassau_county executive thomas_suozzi to rebuild nassau_coliseum and develop county property into multiuse complex . smg holds lease , which runs through mid-2014 , that is considered among most imbalanced in professional sports .
 general motors is expected to cut either buick or pontiac brand unless company can engineer sharp upturn in its market shares . speculation that gm will eliminate either brand became fevered last month when gm 's vice chairman robert_a_lutz referred to two as ` damaged brands ' at conference in new_york moderated by morgan_stanley .
 newest nation in europe is single country that combines two former yugoslav republics of serbia and montenegro . but six months after country of serbia and montenegro was created , there is growing frustration with experiment in balkan unity and mounting sense that it is not working well . diplomats and politicians increasingly acknowledge that country may not live out its three-year trial run , after which there is scheduled to be referendum on whether to continue as one country . most difficult tariff issues remain unsettled along with others involving judiciary , communications and energy .
 article on nelson_shin , korean-american animator who has worked for seven years and spent more than $ 6.5 million on animated version of korean folk tale about shim_chung , young girl who gave her life to sea dragon so that her blind father may see again and is rewarded by becoming an empress . empress chung is first film to be released at same time in north and south korean movie theaters .
 arts briefing column . author judy_blume reportedly joins walt_disney_co and independent producer jane_starz in deal to transform her novels into films , first of which will be deenie . canadian theater and film director robert_lepage is named winner of $ 61,000 hans christian andersen prize given annually by odense , denmark .
 china is pushing russia to sign 49-year lease to convert zarubino , midsize cargo port on trinity_bay , to chinese economic enclave . so far , russia has not agreed , but china has ordered chinese companies to boycott russia 's ports in sea of japan until moscow agrees to plan . history of european leases on china 's ports cited . with china 's economy quickly rising , russia is concerned about being eclipsed and , while interested in plan , russia is also wary of impact on its own economy .
 sony 's entertainment divisions seem to be recovering from years of bloated spending , with film division producing five profitable movies in row and sony music entertainment finally turning profit in year ended march1 as it awaits approval of its merger with bmg . sony_corp_of_america chairman sir howard_stringer discusses turnaround , interview . it is still unclear whether sony executives will embrace sony_pictures_entertainment chairman and chief executive michael_lynton as he seeks even more cost savings and tries to bring stability to dysfunctional studio . market share graphs .
 union protests dismissals of nine new jersey social workers over accusations they failed to protect adopted children of vanessa and raymond_jackson . says that workers are not trained to detect certain kinds of abuse and neglect and that some had not worked on jackson family case for years . notes that many neighbors and fellow church members did not suspect problem . gov james e mcgreevey says criminal charges may yet be filed in latest embarrassment to division of youth and family services .
 new_york police dept 's regular officers and its auxiliary officers join as one at funeral for auxiliary officer nicholas_t_pekearo , who was killed on march 14 after confronting gunman in greenwich_village . his partner , auxiliary officer yevgeniy_marshalik , was also killed before armed police officers killed gunman , david_r_garvin . mayor michael_r_bloomberg and police comr raymond w kelly praise officers .
 letters from rachel_roberts , munjed farid al qutob and ken_galal support dec 27 editorial opposing israel 's decision to build new west bank settlement . jacqueline_schwartz and josh hasten oppose editorial . joan_salemi letter holds that big brother protector stance of us is damaging both israel and us -lrb- dec 28 article -rrb- .
 analysis of rejection by recalcitrant_house conservatives led by reps f james_sensenbrenner jr and duncan_hunter of intelligence bill pres bush lobbied for personally . defeat , at time_when_republicans_control_white_house and congress , raises questions about how much power bush has on capitol hill and how he plans to exert it in second term . analysts hold bush could have pushed bill through . says speaker j dennis_hastert could have passed bill with democratic votes , but did not want to split his caucus .
 memo from britain on new conservative leader david_cameron 's task of rewriting party narrative into script for electoral success , as tony_blair did for labor decade ago . cameron , 39 , leads aging party whose support in north of england , scotland and wales withered before 1997 election . effort to win young voters is not easy in party associated with country fetes and retirees .
 national_park_service will draft master plan for improvement of gateway national recreation area , 26,607-acre park on new_york_city and northern new jersey coast recently found by national_parks_conservation_assn to be in worst condition of any national park . gateway has been promised operating budget increase of $ 3.4 million . van alen_institute_,_design_research_organization , is sponsoring design competition seeking proposals for revival of floyd_bennett field , one of gateway 's parcels .
 executives from symantec and veritas software have been scrambling to persuade investors that their proposed $ 13.5 billion merger deal makes sense . share price of symantec has continued to slide since word emerged on dec 14 that company was in talks to acquire veritas , making sales pitch for transaction even more of a challenge . shares of symantec have fallen 29 percent since dec_13 .
 alex_witchel interview with george_jacobs , who served as frank_sinatra 's valet for 15 years , until he was banished by sinatra for having danced with sinatra 's much-younger wife , mia_farrow , on eve of their divorce . jacobs recounts his experiences with sinatra in his book mr s . my life with frank_sinatra .
 report issued by investigators says sidney_massey , principal at public school 37 in east_harlem , endangered children by allowing former child molester to work in school as volunteer . mario_martis , former school aide once charged with sexually molesting 12-year-old boy , worked with children from sept 2003 until may 2005 . massey retired in 2005 after being removed as principal and is ineligible to work in city schools again .
 judge patricia_minaldi is disqualified for conflict of interest and louisiana district attorney rick_bryant moves to retry robert_rideau for 1961 bank robbery and fatal shooting spree . rideau , prize-winning prison journalist and documentary maker , has had three convictions overturned but remains incarcerated . federal appeals court ruled two years ago that he should be set free or retried .
 nassau_county_exec_thomas_r_suozzi proposes $ 2.4 billion budget for fiscal 2005 that does not raise property taxes . comptroller howard_weitzman and other officials warn that county still faces large deficits in 2006 and 2007 and that property taxes will have to be raised then . nassau legislature approved $ 300 million refinancing plan for nassau_health_care_corp .
 brooklyn navy yard , 300-acre city-owned complex that is now largest commercial leasing space in new_york_city , is taking part in city 's estate boom . its 40 warehouses and old shipyard buildings are almost fully leased by 230 industrial and manufacturing enterprises and number of artists and craftsmen . leasing program has grown in last two years , since city 's capital budget provided $ 71 million for infrastructure improvements . complex , managed by not-for-profit brooklyn_navy yard development_corp , brings in rents of almost $ 18 million a year .
 dutch government announces that it will return 200 old-master paintings seized by nazis to heir of jacques_goudstikker , wealthy dutch jewish dealer and collector who fled amsterdam ahead of advancing german troops in may 1940 . restitution follows recommendation made in december by restitutions committee appointed by dutch government and is one of largest ever of art seized during nazi era . marei_von_saher , widow of goudstikker 's son , expresses her joy about decision .
 american_international_group agrees to pay $ 10 million penalty for helping struggling midwestern cellphone distributor brightpoint_inc cover up millions in business losses . securities and exchange_commission says aig agreed to provide financial instrument worth $ 12 million to brightpoint that had appearance of insurance but was exchange of money that earned aig fee of about $ 100,000 . transaction enabled brightpoint to reduce by nearly $ 12 million initial annual loss of about $ 29 million in 1998 . neigher company admits wrongdoing .
 new_york state budget cuts in tuition programs affect students at private colleges as well as state schools . with private schools increasingly serving lower income families , many students have come to rely on loans and grants given through tuition assistance program and higher education opportunity program . tap gave grants last year totaling $ 236 million , but under gov pataki 's budget , that will be cut by about $ 78 million . greatly affects st john_'s_university , whose students receive more than $ 18 million in tap aid .
 top executives of deutsche_bank will convene in frankfurt to discuss whether to bid for postbank , germany 's huge postal banking system . postbank is in play because its state-controlled parent company deutsche post plans to take bank public in june , selling up to 49.9 percent of its stock in inital public offering .
 roger_cohen article says intriguing idea has been gaining ground in france on eve of pres bush 's visit : that much disliked president does not represent true america , that us is shining entity to be honored on d-day beaches and distinguished from pres bush himself . holds fact is , whether france likes it or not , bush can not be distinguished from america .
 prime min ariel_sharon 's government reverses earlier position and votes to free islamic militants , while military lifts several roadblocks in west_bank . moves come hours before sharon flies to washington , where he could face rare differences with pres bush on middle east peacemaking . peace plan does not specifically require israel to release any of roughly 6,000 palestinian prisoners it is holding , but palestinian prime min mahmoud_abbas has made it priority .
 america 's department stores , after years of losing customers , are embarked on reconstructions and recalculations that are unprecedented in country 's retailing history . nation 's stores are expected to spend more than $ 1 billion over next three years on renovations alone , having already spent between $ 75 million and $ 100 million in last five years . stores are trying to recapture their past glory .
 oxford health plans co dispute with jamaica_hospital_center in queens and doctors over money threatens scares patients and hospital 's financial health . oxford tells subscribers and doctors it will no longer pay for medical care at jamaica . oxford and jamaica agreed to new rate structure in 2004 , but oxford continues to pay at old rate , costing jamaica tens of millions of dollars . cancellation of contract would be much more devastating . hospital says oxford wants it to strongarm doctors to accept its rates .
 emergence of internet as major fund-raising tool is arguably largest single change to campaign finance system to come from 2004 presidential race . howard dean set pace during primaries , raising about $ 20 million . sen john_kerry emerged as largest online fund-raiser in politics , raising about $ 82 million over internet . bush campaign raised about $ 14 million online .
 separate weekend attacks leave seven marines dead in volatile province of anbar , iraq , and militants kill american soldier and ambush_iraqi_national_guard patrol in baghdad . attacks come after four police offices are killed in two attacks in central and northern iraq , underscoring insurgents ' continuing efforts to terrorize anyone who cooperates with americans .
 india 's ruling hindu_nationalist_party is rocked as key coalition partner loses 75 percent of its assembly seats in andhra pradesh vote . stock prices plunge nearly 4 percent on concerns that government will be unable to carry out economic reforms . exit polls in national election suggest prime min atal bihari_vajpayee 's coalition could lose as many as 30 parliament seats , possibly forcing him to include in coalition small populist parities that demand broader reform . big loser in andhra pradesh is party leader n chandrababu_naidu , world_bank favorite considered architect of india 's high technology boom .
 article on film program at university_of_texas , which has joined forces with investors to form tiny independent movie studio in austin . university says it plans to make at least eight movies , some with budgets of more than $ 3 million , over next three years . matthew_mcconaughey , richard_linklater and terrence_malick are aiding program .
 rituals column on ann_loeding and gary_matthews , who salvaged elise_ann_conners , sleek but rusting 1881 steam-era canal tugboat , from bottom of rondout_creek in upstate_new_york and have docked it behind maritime museum in kingston , ny . couple has spent past decade painstakingly restoring north_america 's second-oldest tug .
 new_york_city and homeless advocates appoint three-member panel to manage relations between two camps after 20 years of feuding . qualifications of panel members former fordham_university_law_school_dean_john_d_feerick , citizens ' committee for children of new_york director gail_b_nayowith and former henry street settlement director daniel_kronenfeld discussed .
 j p power & associates ' survey of auto dependability finds toyota 's luxury brand lexus has fewest problems . lexus owners in survey reported 163 problems per 100 vehicles , versus industry average of 273 . nissan 's luxury brand infiniti comes in second and buick_brand_of_general_motors_corp third . chrysler and dodge_brands_outperform_mercedes-benz , which in turn only narrowly edges out chrysler 's jeep brand . japanese automakers continue to lead in durability . porsche is among industry 's best , and bmw and jaguar division of ford_motor co are better than average , as is gm 's saab division . volkswagen and its audi division continue to have quality problems .
 peter_applebome our towns column on ties formed between high school students from brooklyn and westchester_county through their writing . says rotary_club_of_somers , ny , and billy_collins , former us poet laureate , gathered writings into collection titled on my mind : student writings from somers and brooklyn , new_york . concludes that similar projects could help eliminate divisions between people .
 charles schwab_corp becomes latest company to tell employees that it will stop making matching contributions to their retirement plans . decision is painful cost-cutting move for schwab chairman charles_r_schwab , who has been champion of 401 -lrb- k -rrb- plan . other companies that have said they are reducing or halting such contributions include goodyear tire and rubber , great northern paper , tech_data , el_paso_corp and cms_energy_corp . alicia_h_munnell , director of center_for_retirement_research at boston_college , says eliminating match has potentially disastrous effects .
 board named by nasa to probe space shuttle columbia disaster devotes much of its first week to arguments over mission and membership before its members go home for weekend . lawmakers continue to press for changes they say are needed to bring about more independent and credible inquiry . inquiry reportedly has been conducted so far by nasa experts and contractors who built shuttle . nasa official maj gen_michael_c_kostelnik_defends_board 's decision to go home .
 floodwaters in village of yagloo , somalia , have drowned animals , submerged crops and swept away homes . villagers are slowly starving . few aid agencies have come to rescue because southern somalia 's reputation for chaos and bloodshed has scared off most foreign aid workers . experts say this has been worst flood season in east_africa in 50 years , and many climatologists blame global warming . rains that started in september are predicted to continune on through january .
 new_york_state_appeals_court decision to overturn death sentence of stephen_lavalle casts uncertainty over fates of three other convicted murderers on state 's death row : john_b_taylor , nicholson_mccoy and robert_shulman . legal experts say it is unlkely that any of them will be executed . inmates are john_b_taylor , nicholson_mccoy and robert_shulman . prosecutors , defense lawyers and victims ' families are still trying to figure out where cases stand and what will happen next .
 israel presses campaign against hamas , delivering two missile strikes in gaza on day before american monitors , assistant sec of state john_s_wolf , david_f_satterfield and unnamned nsc official , are to arrive to prop up new peace plan , which has been badly weakened in week of violence . first assault kills one member of hamas and injures 22 palestinians , almost all civilians . second attack hits munitions warehouse located near home of sheik ahmed_yassin , spiritual leader of hamas . events mark fourth straight day that israeli helicopters target hamas activists .
 new cooking series everyday food to air on pbs beginning in january is first for martha_stewart_living_omnimedia , which has long prclaimed that its corporate strategy is to build brands that do not necessarily revolve around stewart . sharon l patrick , who replaced stewart as chief executive of company after stewart 's indictment in june 2003 , says series based on everyday food magazine , was long in series and it was not intended to be with stewart . featured chefs will include allie_lewis , john_barricelli , lucinda_scala_quinn , margot_olshan and sarah_carey .
 terry_trucco travel article on increased interest in marketing vacations to gays and lesbians who , according to community_marketing , represent 10 percent , or $ 54.1 billion , of us travel sector . small but growing number of north american destinations , taking cue from montreal and fort_lauderdale , are concentrating on gay audience and same is true of destinations worldwide .
 indian immigrants who came to israel in june , convinced they they are descended from one of biblical lost tribes of israel , have settled on west_bank , near nablus , thrusting themselves onto front lines of mideast conflict . arrived just as work began on peace plan that would require israel to freeze settlement activity in west_bank and gaza_strip , move that would affect 6,000 people in northeast india who consider themselves jews . israeli min avraham poraz has frozen program that lets about 100 of these people immigrate annually , concerned that people from poor nations are coming to israel to upgrade their standard of living rather than because of jewish ties . indian community on west bank faces attacks by palestinian assailants .
 florida_state_supreme_court rules ralph_nader may appear on ballot as reform party 's presidential candidate , rejecting democratic arguments that reform party had not met state requirements . most experts believe nader will siphon more votes away from sen john_kerry than from pres bush . florida sec_of_state_glenda_hood had certified that nader should go on ballot . circuit court judge p kevin_davey blocked move , but supreme_court_stayed_davey 's injunction pending review . more than 50,000 absentee ballots may now be mailed to florida voters overseas .
 marco_de_benedetti , head of telecom_italia mobile , says consolidation is inevitable in european cellphone industry . says most european countries can support only three mobile phone companies . four of europe 's five biggest mobile phone markets have more than three operators , and some have as many as six . debenedetti says even though telecom_italia mobile is almost debt-free , he does not plan to play further role in any consolidation . sees germany as most likely country for consolidation to begin .
 thousands of south_koreans sent to work as nurses or miners in west germany in 1960 's and 70 's are being welcomed back , especially in south_korea 's rural areas whose population has been decimated by urban migration and declining birthrate . authorities in one county went step further , creating german village and offering cheap land and construction subsidies to any korean nurse or miner who lived in germany for at least 20 years . they are requried to build houses in one of five german architectural models . village will eventually accommodate 75 houses .
 article on amendment to zoning code in fort_salonga , ny , that may force_angel 's gate , animal hospice that susan_marino has operated for 13 years , to relocate . town supervisor patrick_vecchio insists no decision has been made on whether to shut down hospice , which cares for more than 200 animals , but town wants it moved from residential to commercial zone .
 close to 3,000 people from around country fill columbia , sc , auditorium to press six of seven democratic presidential candidates to discuss issues concerning low-income voters . sen joseph_i_lieberman is only democratic candidate who does not attend . center for community change is chief organizer of dialogue , which is first major event in $ 15 million voter education and registration project aimed at low-income voters .
 new york times / cbs poll finds americans now believe iraq war will last longer and cost more than they expected . percentage expecting quick effort drops to 43 percent , from 52 percent at start . those believing war is going well are now 32 percent , down 12 points after news of casualties and capture of several americans .
 douglas sovereign smith jr , longtime program director of boy_scouts_of_america and chairman of its youth_protection_task_force , surrenders on federal charge of receiving and distributing child pornography on internet . smith , 61 , who was put on leave last_month and quietly retired march 1 , is expected to plead guilty to single felony count filed by federal prosecutors , crime that can carry prison term of 5 to 20 years .
 pres bush calls on new congress to move quickly to extend 1996 welfare law for five years and to revise it along lines laid out in bill approved by house in 2002 , which imposed stricter work requirements on welfare recipients . democrats say bush 's plan does not provide enough money and ties hands of states .
 foreign investments is pouring into eastern_europe , record $ 30 billion in 2002 alone . many american executives believe eastern_europe is hungrier and more ready for innovation than countries of western_europe , whose slow-moving economies are too hidebound and cosseted to pine for growth . hope to get toehold in eastern_europe on expectation that its economies can only expand as they are drawn into single market of european_union .
 martha_stewart 's lawyer in imclone case faces daunting task of discrediting douglas_faneuil , prosecution witness , and putting distance between stewart and any possible wrongdoing . may try to isolate her from her stockbroker and co-defendant , peter_e_bacanovic , arguing she had no part in any cover-up involving him and faneuil , his former assistant . experts note strategy could hurt bacanovic 's case , possibly spurring him to seek deal with prosecutors that could harm stewart .
 paul_krugman op-ed column on accusations that senior bush administration officials leaked identification of valerie_plame , wife of former amb joseph_wilson , as cia operative in retaliation for wilson 's questioning credibility of intelligence on iraq . says white_house response is to ` slime and defend , ' and right-wing media has already swung into action to cast slurs on wilson 's character and patriotism .
 eight of nine democratic presidential candidates and several high-level republicans accept invitations to address gathering of arab-american political and grass-roots leaders in dearborn , mich , acknowledging that arab-americans are political force to contend with , particularly because they are clustered in major battleground states like michigan , illinois , pennsylvania , ohio and florida . democrats seek to exploit what they see as pres bush 's vulnerabilities among arab-american voters .
 randall_stross column says spam e-mail may be better dealt with on sender 's side rather than on recipient 's , such as with filters . notes suggestion by cynthia_dwork and moni_naor on how to entail 10 seconds of computation into sending of each e-mail message , not enough time to affect the occasional e-mail , but more than enough to thwart mailing to 8 million recipients .
 dan_barry about new_york column discusses new_york_city 's 226 cases of bias or hate crimes this year , more than one-third of which involve displaying swastika in public places . james_yi 's dry cleaning business on upper west side -lrb- nyc -rrb- was vandalized by three painted - on swastikas .
 former iranian pres ali_akbar_hashemi_rafsanjani says that while iraq should be disarmed , presence of american forces in region is worse than iraq 's access to weapons of mass destruction , speech , tehran_university . seeks to portray united_states as dangerous warmonger . hints iran might be singled out after iraq . urges united_nations to take lead in disarming iraq .
 uja-federation of new_york study finds that jewish population of new_york_city has fallen five percent since 1991 , dipping below one million for first time in century . jewish population has risen by corresponding amount in three suburban counties . 972,000 jews lived in city in 2002 , compared with two million in late 1950 's , and decline would have been steeper if not for influx from former soviet_union . city , long_island and westchester have about 1.4 million jewish residents .
 child welfare officials in new jersey fight to keep open arthur_brisbane_child_treatment_center in farmingdale , only state-run psychiatric hospital for adolescents . kevin_ryan , state 's child advocate , has reported abuse and neglect there , as well as seriously deficient treatment and staff problems . facility is last resort for troubled adolescents age 11 to 18 . state has been ordered by courts to come up with plan to reform its failing child welfare system by early june .
 frank rich op-ed column says pres_bush , seemingly unaware of his slide in popularity , plans public relations visit to new_orleans on first anniversary of hurricane katrina . says bush administration 's katrina response revealed some of same incompetence it has exhibited in iraq . says reconstruction of new_orleans echoes reconstruction , or lack of it , in iraq . says bush can not salvage his credibility when he has no plan for making things better in gulf_coast or iraq .
 sen john_edwards , democratic vice presidential candidate , disputes suggestion that he has kept low profile or not energetically taken on pres bush or vice pres cheney in his campaign appearances . cheney has been mocking and pummeling kerry across country . many democrats want edwards to do for kerry what cheney is doing for bush . that edwards finds his role being questioned by prominent democrats reflects how playing field has changed in 10 weeks since kerry turned to him , when edwards 's stance against attack campaigning seemd clear asset . many democrats are recalculating that equation as kerry lags in polls and is under such relentless assault by cheney . kerry adviser says privately that edwards , with his sunny optimism , might not make most effective attack dog .
 dino_rossi continues his quest to unseat gov christine_gregoire of washington , who beat him by 129 votes out of 2.9 million ballots cast last nov . republicans have sued to overturn results of election . trial will center on human and machine error in thinnest of margins : the 0.07 percent of vote that is being contested because felons or other illegal voters might have cast ballots .
 andrew_heiberger buys town_house on manhattan 's east side for $ 8.1 million after selling his real estate brokerage company , citi habitats , to corcoran_group . developers carlton_brown and ron_moelis comment on their plan to build 250-unit residential condominium on 116th street , part of city 's push to revitalize crosstown corridor . will designate 30 percent of units for moderate-income buyers and 20 percent for low-income buyers . charlotte sheedy sells soho building with two duplexes and two one-bedroom apartments to louis dilauro for $ 3.3 million .
 saudi authorities , in recent meeting between crown prince abdullah and four senior us officials , commit themselves to carrying out measures against terrorism , including ban on cash contributions through mosques and charities that are considered crucial funding sources . us may be encouraged to bring up saudi refusal to permit interviews with families of sept 11 hijackers . slow saudi response to terrorist activity may be changing in aftermath of attack there in may . officials have broken up six to eight al_qaeda cells and moved to cooperate with russia , which has long suspected saudis of financing muslim separatists in chechnya .
 cnooc , chinese oil company , withdraws its $ 18.5 billion for unocal , clearing way for chevron to acquire unocal for about $ 17 billion and keep it in american hands . cnooc 's pullback underscores resentment and bitterness that has formed in china and us over effort to buy what some consider to be strategic assets . chinese oil companies are expected to continue seeking foreign oil assets despite cnooc 's failure and may learn something from tactical and political miscalculations cnooc made .
 russian oil producer sibneft suspends $ 13 billion merger with yukos , country 's largest oil company . yukos denies role in issuing announcement , which sibneft claims is joint statement from both companies , and maintains that merger is still on . latest development represents another in series of setbacks for yukos , whose chief executive mikhail_b_khodorkovsky was arrested in october on tax evasion and fraud charges . many analysts cite arrest as main reason sibneft decided to suspend deal , with some anticipating further government crackdown on yukos .
 twelve blue cross and blue shield plans , working with fbi , break up insurance scheme in which thousands of patients from 47 states were sent to california to undergo unnecessary surgical and diagnostic procedures , for which doctors filed over $ 1 billion of fraudulent insurance claims . fbi says insurers and employers lost $ 350 million in claims paid . blue cross and blue shield files civil lawsuit against nine surgery clinics , 21 doctors and 13 executives and employees of clinics .
 the week column . zoning process for proposal by charles_wang and reckson_associates to rebuild and redevelop nassau coliseum site is likely to take several years to complete . officials in hempstead and many nearby homeowners and business owners reportedly are concerned about project 's density . suffolk county officials announce plan to use eminent domain to condemn decaying plaza theater in east_patchogue . suffolk_county is reviewing law that would require recycling of cellphones .
 henning_larsen , founder of danish architectural firm henning_larsens_tegnestue , publicly denounces his design for operaen , country 's first opera_house , which is set to open in copenhagen on january 15 . larsen criticizes architectural compromises he had to make when maersk_mckinney_moller , businessman who donated building , demanded that design be changed to incorporate his ideas .
 seven iraqi men applying for jobs with iraqi_national_guard are ambushed and killed in baghdad , and four american_marines and soldier are killed in separate hostile incidents . military says it conducted two airstrikes in falluja to kill members of militant network led by abu_musab_al-zarqawi . claims no civilians were in area targeted , but doctors in main falluja hospital say 9 people killed and 16 wounded were all civilians . because falluja is controlled by insurgents , foreign reporters are unable to verify assertions of either side .
 murder trial of steve_bixby begins in abbeville , sc , where he is accused of fatally shooting two law enforcement officers , danny_wilson and donnie_ouzts , who were trying to seize bixby family land for highway-widening project in 2003 . bixby 's father arthur is also accused of murder . town regards bixby 's refusal to give up small piece of his land for highway as senseless . however , symbols of resistance to central authority , some of south 's most hallowed , abound here .
 andrew_blum article on new ` auralization room ' called soundlab developed by arup , international engineering firm . says at arup 's new_york office on edge of soho , soundlab is 150-square-foot windowless space with walls lined with 12 speakers , loosely arranged in sphere , that create three-dimensional sound field . soundlab simulations were used to test acoustics during design of akron art museum and student center at wellesley_college .
 gov james e mcgreevey signs legislation that will protect more than 400,000 acres of land in new jersey 's highlands as well as drinking water for more than 5.4 million state residents . most of new jersey 's prominent environmental groups do not attend bill signing , choosing to hold their own event to criticize mcgreevey for approving second bill that will expedite development throughout state .
 gypsy moths , whose numbers had been dwindling in much of northeast for several years , have made resurgence and are wreaking havoc on trees , particularly in new jersey . state_department_of_agriculture reports pests have infested 125,473 acres of forest , nearly triple acreage defoliated in state in 2005 and well above 6,502 acres infested in 2004 .
 john_j_mack 's contract as co-chief executive of credit_suisse_group will not be renewed when it expires in july . board reportedly rebuffed his urging to consider merger with another financial institution . oswald j grubel becomes sole chief executive of group . brady w dougan succeeds mack as chief executive of first boston_investment_banking division . mack leaves mixed legacy at credit_suisse .
 final four this year will include no team seeded lower than no. 2 for first time since 1993 . top-seeded florida_university and ohio_state_university will meet second-seeded ucla and georgetown_university , leaving casual fans without some unheralded team to identify with . what fans have been given this year has been steady diet of unlikely comebacks and thrilling overtime games . article examines some of myriad reasons tournament has followed form this year .
 pres jacques chirac of france will join pres vladimir_v_putin of russia and chancellor gehard schroder of germany for meeting in st_petersburg to discuss postwar iraq . says un and un alone should be responsible for administering iraq 's reconstruction and governance . un denies russian announcement that sec gen kofi_annan will join three leaders in st_petersburg .
 libya , which recently renounced unconventional weapons , announces that it will stop all military trade with countries that spread such weapons , including north_korea , syria and iran . united states under sec_john_r_bolton praises libya . his comments reflect priority bush administration places on its effort to stop spread of world 's deadliest weapons to terrorist groups and anti-american , unpredictable states like north_korea .
 claudia_rosett op-ed article on reports that france and russia may well back un sec gen kofi_annan 's efforts to modify oil-for-food system and give it larger role in rebuilding iraq . demands annan first open books of program that involves huge sums of money and operates with alarming secrecy to benefit of big business in countries like russia and france . also cites arab countries that were unlikely suppliers of powdered milk and detergent .
 electronic arts signs 15-year deal giving exclusive rights to use espn brand in video games . electronic arts will pay $ 750 million to $ 850 million for right to use espn brand for games based on at leat nine sports , including baseball , basketball and football . deal with espn comes one month after electronic arts announced exclusive five-year deal with national_football_league to design game using its players and uniforms . that deal is worth more than $ 300 million .
 northwest_airlines is seeking permission to shore up its pension funds with stock of subsidiary airline pinnacle_airlines , more stock than law generally allows . pan_am was permitted similar move in 1989 and went out of existence soon after . some pan_am pilots are still litigating pension benefits they lost . northwest pension funds would wind up with more than 10 percent of their assets in stock of pinnacle . many northwest employees fear that their company 's current plan amounts to pension grab . government documents show northwest still owes its pension plans $ 182 million for 2002 to comply with federal law . airline says its total required contributions for 2003 and 2004 can not yet be calculated .
 article on major challenges facing entrepreneurs who hope to turn nanotechology innovations into profitable businesses . profiles hybrid plastics , one of hundreds of nanotechnology companies founded in recent years , which was persuaded to move from southern_california to industrial park on outskirts of hattiesburg , miss . state promised to make equipment and laboratory space at university_of_southern_mississippi 's highly-regarded polymer_chemistry_department available to hybrid at virtually no cost .
 biological and custodial families of tyisha_mccoy retrace contradictions in her life and try to unravel her death at age 13 in apartment of carolyn_thompson , chairwoman of community board 9 in manhattan . girl was born in prison to rhonda_ramseur , but lived with thompson , who believed mccoy was daughter of her late son and ultimately gained custody of her . ramseur contends tyisha was not thompson 's granddaughter .
 article on business gains and recent losses at veeco_instruments_of_woodbury_,_ny , which posted $ 137.9 million operating loss on $ 298.9 million in sales for 2002 . chairman and chief executive edward_braun comments on acquisitions made since going public in 1994 . analysts comment on acquisitions and recently failed merger deal with fei company which fell through .
 sen john_kerry speaks at medgar_evers_college in brooklyn . former new_york gov mario_cuomo and son andrew are among democrats endorsing kerry . but most ringing endorsement comes in speech by michael_parker , who praises kerry for his support of youthbuild_program , which teaches leadership and carpentry skills and which parker credits for turning his life around .
 racketeering indictment unsealed in federal court in brooklyn reveals details of april 2005 mob killing in charleston section of staten_island . prosecutors contend that bonnano crime family soldier gino_galestro paid joseph_young , john_tufarelli , jose_garcia and stefan_cicale to murder robert_mckelvey . both galestro and young could face death penalty if convicted of most serious charges .
 wreckage of twa flight 800 , which exploded off long_island in 1996 , is bieng shipped from calverton , ny , where it was reassembled by investigators in airplane hangar , to george_washington_university_campus in ashburn , va , where it will be used as training tool for safety inspectors at national_transportation_safety_board_academy . victims ' families , who made calverton hangar a de facto memorial , are glad that pieces will not be destroyed .
 sen john_kerry challenges pres bush to monthly debates , suggesting americans ` are hungry for a genuine conversation ' . issues challenge in quincy , ill , site of 1858 lincoln-douglas debates . commission on presidential debates has scheduled three debates for this fall . bush and kerry campaigns are each spending millions of dollars on ads attacking each other .
 article on actress gwyneth_paltrow , who is in brooklyn co-directing her first film , dealbreakers , short about dubious charms of dating . short is one of four stories being made into movies by advisory board of female executives and hollywood actresses assembled to further cause of women in film . paltrow and mary_wigmore co-wrote one of 4,000 essays about life-changing events that were submitted to glamour magazine by its readers on which films are based .
 favoritism that darleen_a_druyun showed toward boeing co when she was no . 2 weapons buyer for air_force , whose full extent was not revealed until her sentencing on oct_1 , is scandal that grows day by day . is subject of potential lawsuits by lockheed_martin , a boeing rival , almost certain congressional hearings , expanded federal investigations , possible reopening of many of boeing 's contracts and additional scrutiny of pentagon 's procurement process and people who oversee it . there are political ramifications as well , with justice_department investigating three top bush administration officials : air_force_sec james g roche , marvin_sambur , air_force acquisition chief , and robin_cleveland , associate director of office of management and budget .
 european union meetings end after two days , with french pres jacques chirac saying he will oppose british idea for security council resolution that would give us and britain right to govern iraq . britain continues verbal attack against france . germany , france and belgium plan separate meeting to discuss strengthening europe 's military capability . war in iraq colors all aspects of meeting and has battered unity_among_eu members .
 federal judge_richard_g_stearns rules that boston 's school assignment plan does not discriminate against white students in reserving fifty percent of seats in elementary and middle schools for children from outside neighborhood . public school population that was 61 percent white when forced busing began thirty years ago is now 14 percent white .
 midwest_research_institute , nonprofit organization in kansas_city , agrees to change longstanding policy of not disclosing names of directors . agrees to release names to the new_york_times , which requested information , and federal regulators as required by law . potential conflicts noted in ties_between_institute_chairman_louis_w_smith_and_ewing_marion_kauffman_foundation , which gave institute $ 3 million in 2002 , when smith had just retired as foundation chairman .
 serious divisions within bush administration over whether to enter serious talks with north_korea before it dismantles its two nuclear programs complicate efforts of gov bill_richardson , democrat , to serve as go-between in defusing nuclear crisis . richardson is known and trusted by north_koreans because of past contacts with him while he was member of congress . united_states has been encouraging japan , south_korea and other countries to reach out to north_korea to probe its aims .
 boots & coots_international_well_control , which may have earned $ 100 million putting out oil-well fires set in kuwait in 1991 , is under pressure from creditors to file for bankruptcy , and its chances for survival may well rest on how many oil wells are set afire during new war in iraq . pentagon 's plan for fighting oil-well fires was drafted by unit of halliburton , which has agreemenet to subcontract firefighting to boots & coots .
 british government convened task force of prominent muslims and pleaded for help in combating homegrown extremism after four british muslims blew up themselves and 52 others in series of attacks in london on july 7_, 2005 . panel 's report came out just before christmas , but members say it has mostly gathered dust . sadiq khan , member of parliament and panel , says that only 3 of 64 recommendations have been carried out .
 justice dept prosecution of former american_israel_public_affairs_committee -lrb- aipac -rrb- officials steven_j_rosen and keith_weissman on accusation of receiving classified information about terrorism and middle_east strategy from defense_dept analyst lawrence a franklin is set for april trial date . aipac first defended and then fired two men . aipac 's clout has not been noticeably diminished by case , but case has set off alarms among policy groups , lobbyists and journalists who swap information .
 lt gen thomas_metz , commander of american ground forces in iraq , says significant areas of 4 of 18 provinces are still not secure enough for citizens to vote in jan 30 elections . singles out provinces of baghdad , anbar , which includes falluja and ramadi , nineveh , which includes mosul , and salahadin , including tikrit . continuing violence is reported in two of provinces . iraqi insurgency is thought to number 8,000 to 10,000 fighters and has grown in strength despite sustained american efforts to crush it . metz says military operations are being stepped up to make all areas of four troubled provinces , which together contain more than half the population of iraq , safe enough for vote .
 sen john_kerry surrenders fiercely fought presidential campaign , conceding election to pres bush with dignity , gratefulness and emotional appeal for unity in time of war . photo with running-mate john_edwards and their wives in boston 's faneuil hall . speech at 2 pm on day after election comes after long night in which hundreds of lawyers and democratic strategists in boston , washington and ohio crunched numbers in hopes of challenging outcome there . kerry decided in morning not to pursue legal effort on ohio 's provisional ballots .
 energy sec spencer abraham orders cross-sound cable to begin transmitting power between connecticut and long_island as early as sept 1 and to continue to do so until power emergency in northeast abates . decision is hailed by politicians and utility officials who have long suspported cable under long_island sound . atty gen richard_blumenthal of connecticut weighs legal action against abraham 's order .
 democrats reeling from unexpected defeats that give republicans net gain of four senate seats move to choose successor to sen tom_daschle , minority leader and only senate incumbent to lose . sen harry_reid says he has support to be formally elected as minority leader , and sen_christopher_j_dodd , potential rival , says he would back reid . sens byron_l_dorgan and richard_j_durbin are likely to square off for democratic whip position now held by reid . sen bill_frist , majority leader , and house speaker j dennis_hastert issue statements expressing desire to try to work across party lines , in contrast to bitter partisanship of recent years .
 gia kourlas critic 's notebook on balanchine-driven companies in united_states that rival new_york_city ballet . holds that miami_city_ballet , boston ballet , pacific_northwest_ballet and san_francisco ballet are all viable alternatives and choice for dancer of whether or not to stay in new_york is no longer as clear cut .
 confessed murderer randolph f dial , who escaped from oklahoma prison with deputy warden 's wife bobbi_parker and hid for more than 10 years before being recaptured in 2005 , is sentenced to maximum seven years for escaping . randy_parker says he believes his wife was abducted and held against her will in fear of dial 's underworld connections .
 alan b krueger economic scene column on whether whether consequences of postwar iraq resemble tragedy of germany after world war i or success of germany after world war ii . says financial burden on iraq already poses big obstacle to reconstruction even without punitive war reparations . federick d barton and bathsheba n crocker of center for strategic and international studies say iraq 's total potential obligation -- from war-related compensation claims , foreign debt and pending contracts -- is $ 383 billion . say if half of iraq 's oil export income is used to pay debt , it will take more than 35 years .
 absolut spirits co will introduce raspberry-flavored version of its flagship vodka brand , launching it with television commercials for first time . ads will run on some cable networks . campaign was developed by tbwa_/_chiat_/ day . television spots are one element of multifaceted campaign for new flavor , with total budget estimated at $ 9 million to $ 10 million .
 judge rebecca_pallmeyer dismisses two members of jury deliberating in corruption trial of former illinois_gov_george_ryan . hopes to avoid mistrial by replacing two jurors with alternates . dismissals follow revelations in chicago tribune that two jurors lied on questionnaires about whether they had criminal records . one of them failed to disclose drunken-driving arrests that led to revocation of his driver 's license when ryan was secretary of state , office responsible for such matters .
 analysis : united_states is trying to hurry things along in debate in united_nations about iraq , but other members of security council are becoming more determined to take their time . debate centers on importance of broad report that chief weapons inspectors will deliver to council on jan_27 . bush administration says that could be defining moment . other council nations , including russia and france , contend that resolution contains no deadline at all for iraq to comply .
 ripplewood_holdings_llc will buy fixed-line operations of japan_telecom_holdings_co from vodafone group for 262 billion yen -lrb- $ 2.2 billion -rrb- . vodafone will still have controlling stake in j-phone_co , japan_telecom 's profitable cellphone group . deal represents another bit of unraveling in fabric of corporate japan , which for decades has been knit together by bank loans and interlocking stockholdings . purchase is another beachhead for overseas investors who in past have faced hurdles in buying companies in crucial industries . japan telecom president william_morrow and ripplewood managing director jeffrey_hendren comment .
 article on latest rift between connecticut and long_island over dredging of harbors on connecticut side of long_island sound and how and where to dispose of muck . federal government , after five-year study , has picked two spots , one in noroton and other in east_haven . army_corps_of_engineers_project manager mark_habel says agency , which has range of environmentally acceptable alternatives , has chosen least costly .
 tennessee is expected to pass comprehensive smoke-free-workplace law , first ever for major tobacco-growing state . gov phil_bredesen , who proposed ban , says no tobacco will be planted on his farm this year . also seeks to triple taxes on cigarette sales and use some of proceeds for smoking prevention . state 's tobacco harvest fell from peak of 178 million pounds in 1982 to 49 million pounds in 2006 .
 front-running candidate in peruvian presidential campaign ollanta_humala promises to crack down on multinational companies and to arrest crooked politicians . his populist antiglobalization stance and talk of transforming economy has caused biggest tumble in country 's stock market in five years , but his approval rating has risen from 11 percent in november to 33 percent , ahead of lourdes_flores at 27 percent and former pres alan_garcia at 22 percent . humala has offered little detail about his plans .
 very light jet planes are finding niche among businesspeople for short trips of 300 to 400 miles or so , which now require long drives or , worse , frustrating delays and connections in commercial airports . air taxi flight may cost $ 800 to $ 2,400 to and from tallahassee , as opposed to about $ 700 for commercial air trip . commercial trip takes two days and requires hotel stay . companies that sell light jets include eclipse aviation and adam aircraft .
 amy virshup newly released article notes books clemente : the passion and grace of baseball 's last hero by david_maraniss , the girls by lori_lansens , black maestro : the epic life of an american legend by joe_drape , oracle bones : a journey between china 's past and present by peter_hessler , iran awakening : a memoir of revolution and hope and desperate networks by bill_carter .
 kenny_smith , 24 , and parris france , 22 , are charged with murder of 13-year-old tyisha_mccoy at her guardians home in manhattan . court papers say that girl owed smith $ 100 for braiding her hair and that he brought france along to collect money . they are also charged with robbing guardian , carolyn_thompson , of thousands of dollars in jewelry and other items . writings attributed to mccoy reveal troubled life of teenager who sought sex with older men through internet .
 daniel_bergner op-ed article on plight of 31,000 federal and state inmates serving life sentences without opportunity for parole . cites case of wilbert_rideau , now 61 , who has served 42 years in louisiana for brutal killing committed in aftermath of hapless bank robbery . notes rideau 's educational and personal achievements and rehabilitation during his long years of incarceration , and job offers in journalism were he ever to get out .
 accounting fraud at parmalat , giant italian food and dairy company , is global scandal but remains profoundly local story in parma , where calisto_tanzi founded company four decades ago . ouster of stefano_tanzi , calisto 's 35-year-old son , as president of company 's soccer team , parma_ac , ruptures one of deepest bonds between city and tanzi family . lawyers and investigators say intense pressure is starting to sunder family . townspeople believe that younger tanzis like calisto and his sister francesca were peripheral figures at parmalat despite their board seats . chronology of company 's downfall .
 political detente between north_korea and south_korea is bearing economic fruit as south_korea 's economic expansion spreads along southern edge of long-feared demilitarized zone -lrb- dmz -rrb- . pressure of nearly 50 million people squeezed into south_korea drives stampede for what developers call last best place near seoul . traditional uneasiness that south_koreans held for investing in what was invasion route for north korean tanks in 1950 has vanished . trickle of construction investment in carefully controlled projects is even flowing through holes in dmz to joint ventures on northern side .
 kemmons_wilson , who founded holiday inn chain with first motel in memphis in 1952 , dies at age 90 . photo . wilson was already millionaire home builder when he became so disgusted by shabby lodgings during family vacation that he vowed to build clean motels that did not charge extra for children . name came from 1942 bing crosby movie . company growth was fueled by postwar families taking to new interstate highway system . there are now holiday inns in every state and more than 50 countries , and company estimates that 96 percent of americans have stayed in one .
 profile of forbes russia editor paul_klebnikov , who was murdered on july 9 . klebnikov arrived in russia with a spirit of civic reform and dreamed of a better russia . was optimistic that russia was settling down after turmoil of 1990 's , but had growing concern about government power . few believe klebnikov 's killer will be found . his murder raises questions about prospects for change in russia .
 mitsubishi_motors is reaching for financial lifeline amid devastating decline in sales less than year after it narrowly averted crisis by securing $ 4.6 billion bailout from mitsubishi group . companies in mitsubishi group are planning to invest as much as 300 billion yen -lrb- $ 2.9 billion -rrb- in mitsubishi_motors . their moves are part of new bailout plan company is trying to assemble by end of month . mitsubishi_motors is also continuing to seek investment from another automaker .
 rep jim_nussle , chairman of house_budget_committee , tells white_house budget chief joshua_bolten that pres bush might need to consider his first veto in order to hold congress in line on proposed budget . there is consensus on capitol hill that bush 's budget is going to be extremely tough sell . nussle photo .
 footlights column : st_paul_'s_church_national_historic site in mount_vernon , ny , will present show about history of tombstones . sarah_lawrence_college in yonkers presents free international film festival , the city in cinema . 32nd annual poetry contest will open in greenburgh , ny . northern westchester center for the arts in mount_kisco opens show dedicated to children 's art .
 at least five american soldiers die in iraq during 24-hour period , two of them fighting insurgents in kufa during unraveling of cease-fire agreement with moktada_al-sadr . two are first to be reported killed in combat in najaf-kufa area since operation began to put pressure on sadr to disarm his militia . elesewhere in country , violence continues . car bomb explodes near american headquarters in baghdad , killing at last four iraqi civilians and wounding 25 . american generals are giving contradictory information about state of violence in kufa and najaf .
 leaders of both parties will be watching results of gubernatorial votes set for kentucky , mississippi and louisiana for clues to 2004 presidential race . pres bush plans whirlwind of rallies in kentucky and mississippi , states with democratic governors where he remains enormously popular . appearances are likely to boost rep ernie_fletcher in his race against kentucky atty gen ben_chandler and haley_barbour in his challenge to mississippi gov ronnie_musgrove while aiding own re-election drive . in louisiana , bobby_jindal , republican , and lt gov kathleen_blanco , democrat , will compete in nonpartisan primary runoff for seat held by gov mike_foster , republican . polls show all three races are very tight .
 army investigation recommends two dozen members of army_reserve unit in iraq be punished for disobeying orders in oct to deliver fuel from base near nasiriya to taji base . most reservists will probably be fined , demoted or reprimanded , but four or five could face courts-martial on more serious charges . soldiers complained their vehicles were not properly outfitted , their fuel was contaminated and they were not being escorted by armed vehicles .
 fashion designer elie_tahari 's plan to fix leaky roof of his penthouse apartment at 860 fifth avenue splits co-op board . majority of board supports tahari 's plan to spend $ 1.2 million to have roof repaired and to pay co-op another $ 2.5 million in exchange for right to build at his own expense up to 3,500 square feet on top of his penthouse and out over existing rear terrace . minority of board members opposed to plan have won temporary restraining order barring majority from holding meeting of all shareholders to vote on it .
 niall_ferguson op-ed article says failure of diplomacy that the french see in us-led war against iraq recalls british foreign policy in 1820 's , when prime min george canning unabashedly pursued british interests , with minimal regard for france and austria , waning powers . says canning did cultivate ties with rising powers of his day , russia and united_states , and bush would be ill advised to treat china , whose help he will need in dealing with north_korea , the way he has treated france and germany .
 vice pres cheney visits kazakhstan day after chastising russia for using oil and natural gas for ` intimidation . ` calls for export routes that bypass russia to supply west directly . photo . map . visit highlights us effort to counter russia through closer ties to states like kazakhstan , which have spotty human rights records and limited democracy , but plenty of oil . echo of 19th century scramble for central_asia has us trying to weaken russian dominance in region .
 plans for new_york_city 's commemoration of sept 11 terrorist attack will be far more modest than first anniversary , with families of victims , rather than politicians playing central role . children related to victims will recite list of names . service will be mostly confined to moments of silence and tolling bells . site will be commemorated by twin beams of light . new_york gov george_pataki , new jersey gov james_mcgreevey and new_york_city mayor michael_bloomberg plan to attend .
 filipino truck driver is released in baghdad after philippines removes last of its 51 soldiers and police officers from iraq month early , as kidnappers demanded . us , australia and iraqi government criticize decision , but prime min gloria_macapagal_arroyo says it would have been silly to sacrifice angelo_dela_cruz 's life when troops were leaving anyway . four iraqi veterinarians are killed , three wounded when bomb hits minibus in baquba . men dressed in police uniforms are linked to assassination of interim governor , hazem_tawfeek_al-ainichi , in basra .
 government watchdogs criticize empire_state_development_corp and its subsidiary , lower manhattan_development_corp , for handling of certain federal grants after sept 11 terrorist attacks . texas_rep_michael_t_mccaul singles out $ 635,000 loan guarantee to frozen custard stand in austin area . small business administration inspector general eric_m_thorson warns congressional hearing that audits have found many such examples . ruth a ritzema of hud notes duplicate and ineligible payments and overpayments in new_york .
 enron , once pinnacle of international energy industry , is now little more than shadow of its former self . gone are some iconic properties , including company 's ambitious energy trading operations , which it transferred to investment bank ubs in 2002 . its share of controversial dabhol power project in india , sold to general_electric and bechtel in april 2004 , and wessex water , british utility that it sold to ytl power of malaysia in may 2002 . enron 's payroll is down to 10,300 employees , compared with 32,000 before company collapsed .
 partial reopening of statue of liberty has been held up by private campaign launched by statue of liberty-ellis_island foundation to raise $ 7 million for project . nonprofit foundation took over project from national_park_service , which never asked congress to provide $ 2.3 million that it initially estimated the job would cost and wavered for two years on whether it even wanted to reopen statue . foundation decided not to dig deeply into its $ 30 million endowment to do work and instead mounted separate fund-raising campaign involving commercial sponsors like folgers coffee , american_express and wal-mart . fund-raising goal steadily rose to $ 7 million as still more months went by . foundation used bulk of its budget for its own programs , doing little on number of basic infrastructure problems at statue , such as lack of emergency exits , sprinkler systems and lighting , which park service now cites as reasons for keeping statue closed .
 who says migratory birds are carrying avian influenaz that is racing across asia . wildfowl deaths in thailand are considered ominous sign of virulence of epidemic that scientists now fear . pakistan announces infection of chickens . thailand confirms third human case and ten other suspected cases including five deaths . china , which denies having any cases , is suspected source .
 article on edward_steichen , whose multiple gum bichromate photograph the pond -- moonlight has been sold at auction by sotheby 's for record $ 2.9 million . gloria_poccia_pritts , village historian in mamaroneck , ny , says she believes photo was taken on or near hampshire_country_club 's golf course while steichen was recuperating from typhoid at home of art critic charles h caffin .
 biggest study to date of resistance to aids drugs finds about 10 percent of all newly infected patients in europe have drug-resistant strains . scientists at international aids conference in paris say findings suggest that many patients in treatment go back to high-risk sex or needle-sharing . 27 percent of 225 patients tested in san_francisco are drug resistant . study author dr charles_boucher comments .
 ford_motor_co 's future in brazil rests with production of ecosport sport utility vehicle in camacari . ford south_america president richard_canny says ecosport is sport utility vehicle that has been specifically developed for south_america and is unique in market . adds ford hopes vehicle , which will be introduced feb 21 , will create whole new market segment .
 filmmaker robert_greenwald is helping sierra_club and american_civil_liberties_union create their own television series . sierra_club chronicles is monthly series consisting of seven half-hour episodes on environmental topics aired on link tv . series the aclu freedom files on court tv features stories of real court cases on civil liberties issues . sierra_club and aclu see their programs as only beginning of more such shows to get their message out .
 hyundai_motor_corp chairman chung_mongkoo is sentenced to three years in prison for embezzling corporate funds . will continue to run corporation while his case is appealed . remains out on bail . hyundai is struggling with labor unrest at home and pressure from japanese competitors abroad . chung 's legal problems come as hyundai seeks to deal with labor strife that cost it $ 2.4 billion in lost production last year .
 long island journal column . michael_watt , director of www.longisland.com web site who has become known as ask mr long_island , comments on some of close to 20,000 questions he has answered on site since its inception in 1999 . elderly long_island residents josephine_bacchi , murray_panetz and madeline_brewi comment on influenza pandemic of 1918 .
 profile of hitomi_kanehara , 20-year-old woman who has won japan 's top literary award , akutagawa , with her debut novel hebi_ni_piasu . book is available only in japan but may be translated into english as snakes and earrings . kanehara is sharing prize with risa_wataya , 19-year-old woman . they are youngest winners of akutagawa . their books have broken sales records and have become prism for many japanese to look at their society . kanehara photo .
 eight-reel kinescope of both segments of 1959 television adaptation of budd_schulberg 's 1941 novel what makes sammy run have been found , mislabeled , at library of congress . museum of television and radio , which prompted search , will celebrate discovery with screening at museum attended by schulberg and brother , stuart , who co-wrote teleplay , and dina_merrill , who co-starred with larry_blyden .
 new study by dr edgar_r_miller_iii of johns_hopkins finds that people who take high doses of vitamin e may not be getting any health benefits and may , in fact , be slightly increasing risks of dying earlier . results come from 19 clinical trials and find 39 additional deaths per 10,000 people taking more than 400 international units of vitamin e a day .
 martha_stewart is assigned to minimum-security alderson federal prison in west_virgina to serve five months for conspiracy and other charges related to her sale of imclone_systems stock . had hoped for facility closer to her family . bureau of prisons turned down her first choice of danbury , conn , because news media could stake it out too easily .
 reduction of broadcast network coverage of democratic convention to just three hours over four nights gives sen john_kerry opportunity to appeal to two diverse audiences with different interests . prime-time viewers on monday , wednesday and thursday are shown forward-looking , positive campaign . groups and interests that have always been central to democratic coalition are allowed their forum when networks ' attention slips .
 analysis of some legal issues in $ 604 million damage award against morgan_stanley in lawsuit brought by ronald_o_perelman over 1998 deal to sell coleman_co to sunbeam . discusses judge_elizabeth_t_maass 's decision not to grant_morgan_stanley 's new counsel a continuance after kirkland_&_ellis withdrew and her decision to reverse burden of proof in case in perelman 's favor .
 john_d_negroponte , deputy secretary of state nominee , defends bush administration 's confrontational policy with iran in senate confirmation hearing . senators from both parties demand that us show restraint in dealing with iran . hearings are sign that debate over iraq is increasingly becoming debate over iran . negroponte 's confirmation , which is widely expected , would make him second-highest ranking diplomat behind sec_of_state_condoleezza_rice .
 iraqi insurgents fire six mortar rounds at us military camp northwest of baghdad , wounding 35 soldiers . administrator paul_bremer announces plan to free about 500 of 9,000 iraqis held in american camps , starting with about 100 . plans to restore iraqi sovereignty are jarred by shiite leader grand ayatollah_ali_al-sistani , who objects to waiting until next year to elect delegates to constitutional convention . us death toll is nearing 500 , with several thousand others wounded , many severely . us commanders are nevertheless sounding more upbeat about conflict .
 russian oil companies are bracing to pay more in taxes after pres vladimir v putin insists in speech to business leaders that sector should underwrite more public spending . he complains about business 's stress on minimizing its tax burden . russia is cutting its value-added tax from 20 percent to 18 percent jan_1 and has already instituted flat personal income tax rate of 13 percent . putin argues that government needs to make up any loss in tax revenue in corporate sector .
 new united_nations_security_council resolution will be drafted by coalition of six world powers in effort to ratchet up pressure on iran to rein in its nuclear program . officials from united_states , britain , china , russia , germany and france act after international_atomic_energy_agency reports that iran is expanding its efforts to enrich uranium , in continuing defiance of un .
 former worldcom chairman bernard_j_ebbers is sentenced to 25 years in federal prison for orchestrating record $ 11 billion fraud that toppled telecommunications company he founded . judge barbara s jones says penalty , stiffest in corporate fraud case , is appropriate because ebbers was instigator of fraud that deprived investors of their money . agrees to recommend that ebbers be assigned to federal prison in mississippi , where he lives . ebbers , turning 64 , has been nearly wiped out financially to settle class-action lawsuit .
 judith_steinberg dean steps onto iowa soil for first time , making her debut on campaign trail her husband has been treading ceaselessly for two years . carefully orchestrated moment is strategic surprise for howard_dean , who had surged steadily for past six months only to find himself slipping in polls on eve of most important election of his life .
 bertelsmann_ag and sony_corp sign nonbinding letter of intent to combine their music divisions . letter envisions 50-50 venture to be called sony bmg that would control 25.2 percent of global music market . bmg 's chief executive rolf_schmidt-holtz , who will become chairman of new company , comments . sony and bertelsmann plan to keep their music publishing units out of venture , removing element that provoked european commission in judging previous mergers . sony music chairman andrew_lack will become chief executive of new venture .
 madison square garden owners , steven_m_ross of related companies and steven_roth of vornado_realty_trust discuss placing new arena in rear of moynihan station , postal_service 's james a farley building that is being transformed into $ 930-million transit hub in manhattan . developers would need to avoid affecting landmark facade of farley building . project would need approval of mayor michael_r_bloomberg , who has battled with james_l_dolan , garden 's chairman , over other projects .
 makers of video game consoles report sales that beat goals . sony says it has shipped one million playstation 3 systems since its debut in november . expects to ship six million worldwide by end of march . microsoft says it shipped 10.4 million units worldwide since its november 2005 introduction , beating its estimate by 400,000 . nintendo declines to disclose number of wii gaming consoles shipped .
 james a johnson heads shadow organization to help his friend sen john_kerry to choose vice presidential running mate . leading contenders are sen john_edwards , rep richard_a_gephardt , new mexico gov bill_richardson and iowa gov thomas j vilsack . republican sen john_s_mccain_of_arizona remains highly alluring possibility .
 president bush makes emotional visit to camp pendleton in california , marine base that has been home to nearly one-sixth of all us troops killed in iraq . praises forces that took falluja but speaks cautiously about ability of iraqi troops to defend themselves and predicts rise in attacks before iraqi elections jan 30 . bush meets privately with about 50 families of dead or wounded marines . 269 marines from base have died .
 fourth annual latin grammy awards are held in miami , fla , and broadcast on cbs . latin grammys recognize and promote music in spanish and portuguese from across americas and europe . david_bisbal , this year 's best new artist , is spanish singer . juanes , colombian rocker , wins trophy for song of the year . ceremony includes performances by cuban expatriates , but no musicians who live in cuba , including nominees and award winners , attend event for lack of visas .
 hotel industry is emerging from slump that began year before terrorist attacks of september 2001 . fewer rooms are going begging , room rates are rising and revenues are growing . many owners of sizable hotels are selling . crescent real estate_equities_co_of_fort_worth has put denver marriott_city_center and hyatt_albuquerque on market . tarsadia hotels is looking for buyer for hyatt_regency_orange_county in anaheim , calif , and thayer_hotel investors wants to sell marriott_wardman_park_hotel in washington , while aew partners and other owners are marketing st regis in los_angeles .
 episcopalians across nation attend first sunday service since 62 of 107 diocesan bishops voted to approve rev canon v gene_robinson , gay man , as bishop_of_new_hampshire . in plano , tex , rev david_h_roseberry gets standing ovation from congregation after delivering sermon condemning vote . in concord , nh , where controversy began , worshipers say they are overjoyed that robinson was affirmed but afraid of what might come next for episcopalians .
 merchants who occupy space in atrium of citigroup building on manhattan 's east side say business has fallen sharply since bush administration warned that it and four other financial institutions in new_york , newark and washington were at high risk of attack by al_qaeda . atrium has been closed fro two weeks amid heightened security precautions .
 sherill_tippins article about brownstone at 7 middagh street in brooklyn heights that early in world war ii was home to illustrious , eccentric collection of literary and artistic figures , including carson_mccullers and wartime emigres like w h auden , benjamin_britten , lotte_lenya and kurt_weill . also present were thomas_mann 's adult children erika_and_klaus , who were organizing rescue of artists from southern france . editor george_davis found ramshackle early-19th-century house and turned it into boardinghouse / salon that was also enlivened by his friend gypsy rose lee and many other writers , artists and musicians . photos . house was demolished in 1945 to make way for brooklyn-queens expressway .
 pres bush uses one of his favorite campaign formats , ` conversation ' with employees of small manufacturing company , to take shots at democrats who would roll back tax cuts that bush says create new jobs and spur capital spending . photo at nuair manufacturing in tampa . taxpayer-financed ` policy event ' appears indistinguishable from bush 's campaign appearances . democratic challenger john_kerry enlists florida sen bob_graham to rebut bush .
 lviv journal about ` beautiful but poor ' ukrainian city that finds itself in backwater , excluded from european_union boundary just across polish border from chelm . both were once polish cities in galicia , part of austro-hungarian empire , with lviv vastly more important . photo . map . city , then lvov or lemberg , was 50 percent polish and 30 percent jewish before world war ii , but changed entirely when russians moved in under soviet rule .
 former new_york_city garment industry businessman burton_kaplan , sentenced to 27 years in prison in 1998 for drug trafficking at age 64 , is now key witness against two retired police officers accused of being paid by mob to kill other mobsters . kaplan could testify that former new_york_city detectives louis_eppolito and stephen_caracappa were hired by former mob boss anthony_casso to kill half dozen mobsters in late 1980 's and early 1990 's .
 james brooke travel article on visit to sakhalin , one-time prison island on russia 's eastern edge where , until 1990 , all foreigners were banned . billions of dollars in oil and gas investments have brought tourism to island , where hotels are cropping up and direct flights from seoul and tokyo are making island more accessible .
 j walter_thompson will name bob_jeffrey to become chief executive , succeeding peter_a_schweitzer , who will become chairman , post that is now vacant . schweitzer will also relinquish his duties as worldwide president to michael_madel , now president for thompson_operations in europe , middle_east and africa . jeffrey , who joined agency five_years_ago , will become first thompson chief executive to have spent most of his adveritising career outside agency .
 democratic leaders in congress will challenge pres bush on his policy in iraq and his plans for social security in pre-emptive strike on his state of union address on feb 2 . sen harry_reid , senate minority leader , will deliver speech in appearance with rep nancy_pelosi , his counterpart in house , at national_press_club .
 hewlett-packard ` s efforts to transform its personal computers from low-margin commodities into more stylish devices has started to pay off . revenue increased 12.7 percent in fiscal_second_quarter_from_period_year_earlier , to $ 25.5 billion , and pc division was important factor . revenue from notebook pcs rose 45 percent , and company was able to increase sales of desktop computers , which have been flat for industry , by 9 percent . net quarterly profit was $ 1.8 billion , slight decline from year-earlier quarter .
 cardinals drop hints that next pope must be effective communicator of faith who can sustain grass-roots enthusiasm generated by john_paul_ii . ecumenism and pushing forward john_paul 's effort to evangelize west are two priorities . next pope is unlikely to liberalize church 's positions . among many possible candidates are archbishop of milan dionigi_tettamanzi , archbishop of sao_paulo claudio_hummes , cardinal joseph_ratzinger and cardinal francis_arinze of nigeria .
 new_york_senate majority leader joseph_bruno and assembly speaker sheldon_silver announce decision to combine elements of two different borrowing plans to arrive at compromise to borrow about $ 4 billion , about one-third of budget gap . this has been sticking point in ongoing impasse over this year 's budget . details of proposals noted .
 kennedy_space_center and three other facilities that are crucial to nasa 's manned space program are all vulnerable to hurricane damage . space experts say locations were chosen on basis of blend of sound science and hardball politics . other three sites are johnson_space_center in houston , michoud assembly plant in new_orleans and john_c_stennis_space_center in bay st louis , miss .
 hurricane ivan , third powerful storm to boil up out of atlantic this year , bears down on jamaica after devastating grenada with 150 mile-an-hour winds that killed at least 23 people . in kingston , jamaica , schools , businesses and government shut down . evacuation of florida keys begins . storm also clips northern coast of venezuela and trinidad and tobago .
 much of bedrock of detroit , mich , is unexpectedly at risk as annual detroit auto show prepares to open to media . ford in november disclosed it had pledged nearly all its assets , including trademark logo , as collateral against $ 25 billion in loans needed to fund its restructuring . ford has generated particular sense of sympathy , bewilderment and fear in detroit that its crosstown rivals have not . analysts say there is sympathy because of human element is involved , namely ford family . puzzlement because ford seemed to be one detroit auto company that had answer to japanese competition in 1980s and 1990s with its profitable sport utility . fear that if once-powerful company like ford could falter , no on in detroit may be safe . some residents comment .
 dr raymond v damadian_wins_franklin_institute , philadelphia , bower award for his contribution to development and widespread use of magnetic resonance imagers . 2003 nobel prize awarded for ` discoveries concerning magnetic resonance imaging ' was presented to dr paul_c_lauterbur_of_university_of_illinois and sir peter_mansfield of university_of_nottingham , england . failure of damadian to also get nobel prize inspired him to take out series of full-page advertisments in prominent newspapers protesting decision .
 irvington , nj , mayor wayne_smith 's most significant achievement might be financial . town , suburb of newark , recently graduated from new jersey 's distressed cities program , in which state oversaw irvington 's hiring and spending . town , with its 60,000 residents , is financially on its own for first time since 1999 . smith photo .
 weeklong television coverage of ceremonies surrounding funeral of former pres ronald_reagan concludes with hours of live coverage on every broadcast network as well as three cable news networks . ratings are still inconclusive because figures for broadcast networks will not be available for several days . cable networks continue to have slightly larger audiences than usual , with cnn , fox_news and msnbc each adding average of 100,000 viewers per day .
 harvard_university , one of largest foreign owners of stock in surgutneftegaz holds russian oil producer has failed to pay over $ 400 million in dividends owed to shareholders . seeks binding arbitration of dispute , filing claim for at least $ 3.7 million with american_arbitration_association in new_york , where company shares are traded as american depository receipts . seeks class-action status for claim . dispute is latest in series of challenges to way company treats its shareholders . draws attention among companies weighing investment in russian energy industry .
 article assesses changes in outlooks and work of town board members in brookhaven and north_hempstead , ny , which switched to election by geographic districts from at-large posts for first time last year . at least three other towns on long_island -- huntington , islip and babylon -- have active campaigns to switch from at-large to district elections .
 new_york_city comptroller william_c_thompson jr charges mayor michael_bloomberg favors manahattan over other boroughs in budget decisions , citing administration 's proposal to reduce garbage collection in outer boroughs . comes after year of generally cordial relations between thompson and bloomberg . testifying before city_council , thompson cites other proposals that he says create inequities between manhattan and other boroughs , generating speculation that he might challenge bloomberg in 2005 mayoral race .
 emi_group 's board supports $ 4.7 billion offer from private investor terra_firma_capital_partners . says it will recommend offer to shareholders . adds enterprise value of company is $ 6.3 billion , including debt . sale would be setback for warner_music_group , who has been trying to acquire emi for last seven years . financier guy hands , who started terra_firma , is expected to keep music company whole .
 sen john_kerry vows to cut health care premiums by 10 percent , or $ 1,000 per family , saying bush administration has failed to react to spiraling costs . tells several hundred people in edinboro , pa , of his proposal to have federal government assume responsibility for catastrophic care , move intended to reduce health insurance costs .
 bridgeport , conn , mayor john_m_fabrizi admits that he used cocaine and abused alcohol since he took office in 2003 . says substance abuse has never affected his performance . asks to be allowed to finish term . psychiatrist and fabrizi friend jay_berkowitz says fabrizi received outpatient treatment in 2005 . revelations follow reports that fabrizi was implicated in long-running federal drug investigation .
 news analysis : mayor_michael_r_bloomberg_vetoes_city_council decision to remove landmark status from austin , nichols_warehouse , designed in 1915 by cass_gilbert in williamsburg section of brooklyn . veto represents unusual move by bloomberg , whose record on siding with landmark preservation commission is undistinguished -- he has remained silent on some of most controversial preservation issues during his tenure .
 rutgers resists jan 1 deadline set by gov james_e_mcgreevey for endorsing his ambitious plan to merge new jersey 's research universities . demands substantial self-governance , guaranteed level of funds and more time to review report of design of new system . mcgreevey plan would put rutgers under one governor-appointed chancellor , who would , in turn , appoint regents . merger would include new_jersey_institute_of_technology_and_university_of_medicine and dentistry of new jersey .
 rev joseph_p_byrns is indicted on charges of abusing 11-year-old altar boy in 2002 , same year he aggressively denied allegations of abusing boy 30 years earlier . original allegations drew attention because they came from priest timothy_j_lambert , who accused byrns of abusing him many years ago at parish in queens . byrns pleads not guilty to new charges .
 three saddlebreds have to be euthanized at double d ranch near lexington , ky , after being poisoned on night of june 28 , and prognosis is guarded for two others . kentucky state police and commonwealth 's attorney are investigating poisonings . all five horses had been scheduled to compete in lexington junior league horse show july 7-12 , first competition in triple crown for american saddlebreds .
 automakers are moving operations into china in illustration of how quickly overall auto industry is expanding and modernizing in nation . ford_motor_co opens its second production line with its most advanced factory equipment . will bring total capacity in china to 200,000 cars per year by june . other american and european carmakers , including general_motors , daimlerchrysler and volkswagen , are also introducing their best technologies to plants in china , facing competition from local companies like geely , chery_automobile_co and lifan group . auto executives believe chinese companies will soon be ready to compete in world market as they learn to make use of new equipment and become more efficient .
 new federal rules will shift more cost of education to college students . changes , which are expected to take place in fall 2005 , will save government $ 300 million and at least 1.3 million students will get smaller pell grants , nation 's primary assistance for low income students . 89,000 students who would have qualified for grants will get nothing . new rules are expected to have impact on every type of financial aid , tightening access to billions of dollars in state and institutional grants and increasing reliance on loans to pay for college . it is first significant reduction in 10 years .
 leaders of 38 anglican provinces around world are called to london for extraordinary closed meeting on divisive issue of homosexuality . new archbishop of canterbury , rowan_williams , has task of keeping flock together as liberal-leaning prelates from us , canada , australia and elsewhere back us_episcopal_church 's decision to permit same-sex unions and ordination of v gene_robinson as bishop_of_new_hampshire . in opposition are prelates from most of africa , asia and latin_america , and american conservatives vowing to set up separate church body .
 thousands of assyrians are converging on midyat in southeastern_anatolia to openly celebrate their new year in turkey for first time . their reunion once would have been unthinkable . in past , assyrian new year was banned by turkish government , which saw such expressions of minority ethnic identity as threat . turkey has relaxed its antagonism toward new year 's celebration , hoping to improve its chances for membership in european_union .
 officials at nonprofit a contemporary theater in seattle must raise $ 1.5 million to keep it going past feb 21 . no white knight has appeared since trustees announced on feb 14 that company was $ 1.7 million in debt and operating with only $ 3,000 in bank . company , known as act , has been hurt by weakening economy , less-generous philanthropic environment and severe cuts in public arts financing . faltering of technology , internet and computer companies has been particularly hard on seattle .
 senate approves measure to keep federal agencies operating through end of january , allowing new congress time to work through spending impasses . democrats say they are willing to let interim bill pass without debate , but promise fight on more than $ 9 billion in spending reductions that senate republican leaders have accepted in talks with house and white_house . failure of senate leadership to reach agreement on committee membership and financing leaves panels under democratic control and prevents republicans from taking up spending measure at committee level .
 chevron is expected to admit that it should have known about kickbacks being paid to saddam hussein on oil bought from iraq as part of defunct united_nations program . admission will be part of settlement with united_states and will likely include fines totaling $ 25 million to $ 30 million . would be largest settlement so far in connection with investigations of companies involved in oil-for-food scandal .
 living directly on top of busy trans-manhattan expressway , the upper manhattan approach to george washington bridge , can be noisy for residents of bridge apartments , but tenants enjoy easy access afforded by their location . construction of buildings began in 1961 after air rights were sold by port_authority_of_new_york and new jersey to developer kratter_corp for $ 1 million as part of novel method to build more middle-income housing . longtime tenants say they barely notice surroundings and do not even hear traffic noise .
 fannie_mae 's main regulator office of federal housing and enterprise oversight sues company 's former chairman-chief executive franklin_d_raines , former chief financial officer j timothy_howard and former controller leanne_g_spencer in effort to extract more than $ 215 million in bonus payouts and fines over their involvement in huge-scale accounting scandal . regulator is seeking about $ 100 million in penalties . its effort to recoup more than $ 115 million in bonus payments is notable for its rarity and size .
 pizza patron , which has 59 stores in five southwestern and western_states , is trying to attract latinos by using spanish and , in promotion , accepting pesos . promotion has hit nerve in nationwide immigration debate . company 's dallas headquaters received about 1,000 e-mail messages in one day . some were supportive , but many called idea unpatriotic . antonio swad , president and founder of pizza patron , says he was surprised by outcry .
 virginia appeals court unanimously accepts vermont_supreme_court ruling conferring parental rights on both lisa_miller and janet_jenkins , who were previously joined in civil_union in vermont . overturns lower court ruling on grounds that 1980 federal parental kidnapping prevention act requires virginia to defer to vermont in case involving miller 's biological daughter isabella . miller dissolved union in 2003 and moved back to virginia .
 bush administration has complained so heatedly to qatari leaders that al_jazeera 's broadcasts have been inflammatory , misleading and occasionally false , especially on iraq , that qatar is accelerating plans to put station on market , although bush administration may like privately owned station no better . al jazeera 's audiences range from 30 million to 50 million , but station still relied in 2004 on $ 40 million to $ 50 million subsidy from government , out of $ 120 million budget .
 motorola hopes to raise nearly $ 2.73 billion with initial public offering of over 30 percent of freescale semiconductor , its chip subsidiary . plans to distribute rest of freescale stock to its shareholders as special dividend . freescale , as part of changes , will make $ 1.5 billion cash payment to motorola and sell $ 1.25 billion in notes to raise cash at time of spinoff .
 american international group severs all ties with maurice_r_greenberg , executive who had built company into global giant over four decades . greenberg informs board that , upon his return from europe , he will retire as nonexecutive chairman of board after being stripped of his chief executive title two weeks ago . will not run for re-election as director after his current term expires in may . frank_zarb , lead director , will assume duties of chairman as company considers who to elect .
 article on efforts by harvey_goldman and father , martin , to preserve c h martin_department store by placing granite-sheathed gothic-revival building in yonkers ' getty_square on state and national registers of historic places . city of yonkers is proposing to raze store and 18 other businesses and small apartment building along palisade_avenue and main street and build minor league baseball stadium and retail complex .
 justice michael_j_obus dismisses charge of enterprise corruption , most serious charge against former tyco_international executives l dennis_kozlowski and mark h swartz . two , charged with stealing $ 600 million from tyco and its shareholders , still face 32 charges . decision , something of rebuke for prosecutors who have struggled to present coherent picture of how tyco operated under defendants , clears way for closing arguments next week .
 blake_eskin essay on edible books festival , which was created by california_librarian_judith_a_hoffberg in 1999 and involves looking at books and then eating cakes in shape of book . notes that festival , now in its seventh year , has spread to 28 states and 15 countries . says that over centuries , book-eating has flourished as metaphor and sometime literal act as spiritual , political or artistic statement .
 new_york_city health dept study shows that heaviest drinking neighborhoods are greenwich_village and chelsea , where 32 percent of adults report drinking amounts that study defines as excessive , followed by upper_east side , upper_west side and gramercy park in manhattan , and brooklyn_heights and park slope in brooklyn . report defines ` excessive ' in way that may prompt dispute . it considers man to be drinking excessively if he has over two drinks day and woman to be drinking excessively if she has over one drink day .
 justice bonnie_g_wittner of new_york_state_supreme_court dismisses murder charges against thomas_morales in 1990 slaying at palladium_nightclub in new_york_city . says state waited too long to prosecute morales and had early evidence readily available . questions motives of district attorney robert_m_morgenthau in failing to pursue early leads . david_lemus , whose conviction was overturned in 2005 , is to be retried for murder .
 james r van de velde , former lecturer at yale_university who was publicly identified as suspect in killing of student in 1998 , settles libel lawsuit with quinnipiac_university in hamden , conn , where he taught . is also suing yale and new haven police dept in federal suit , and has brought defamation suit against hartford_courant . police department has never declared that he is no longer suspect in death of student , suzanne_jovin .
 swiss banks agree to give lawyers for holocaust victims and their survivors limited access to information on 4.1 million of accounts made during nazi era . suit settled five years ago awarded $ 1.25 billion to survivors and their families , but access to accounts opened between 1933 and 1945 has been restricted . agreement is expected to break logjam and determine direction of legal battles over settlements .
 zimbabweans look to south_africa , where pres bush will hold talks with pres thabo_mbeki that are expected to include crisis in zimbabwe . morgan_tsvangirai , opposition leader on trial for treason , sends delegation to urge bush to condemn pres robert_mugabe and pressure mbeki to help defuse crisis . mugabe tours country for huge rallies at which he ridicules bush .
 mta , trying to raise more than $ 1 billion , wants to sell or lease for commercial use many of its 14,000 properties , including train stations , commuter parking lots and maintenance yards , in addition to raising transit fares . new_york state also considers shifting $ 1 billion in annual sales tax revenue from new_york_city to mta . authority plans to have consultant review holdings and set up marketing plan , and has already proposed renovating historic stations in some suburbs to allow some commercial use . director katheerine_n_lapp explains plans to turn vast holdings to financial benefit .
 judge leonard b sand sentences john_j_rigas , who built adelphia_communications_corp into country 's sixth-largest cable company , to 15 years in prison for frauding company . sentences timothy_j_rigas , rigas 's son and company 's former chief financial officer , to 20 years in prison for his part in fraud . says elder_rigas 's sentence is shorter because he is 80 years old and is suffering from bladder cancer and heart ailment . says sentence will be revised if he becomes terminally ill .
 much of midwest spends dec 24 digging out from winter storm that left motorists stranded , airports snarled , power lines down and christmas deliveries delayed . snow continues to fall in some of affected area , which stretches from texas across missouri , tennessee , kentucky and ohio . police officers , red cross workers and national_guard troops come to rescue of hundreds of drivers and thousands of housebound families . over 300,000 people are without power in ohio and kentucky . southwest indiana reportedly is worst-hit area .
 unilever lowers its forecasts for sales growth as it presents year-end results . net profit was 811 million euros in fourth_quarter . sales dropped 4 percent to 11.9 billion euros . net profits were up 38 percent , to 2.94 billion euros . co-chairman niall_fitzgerald will step down in september . patrick_cescau , who heads company 's flagship food division , will succeed him .
 crew of about 100 workers begins lowering thousands of steel bases onto walkways in central_park in preparation for installation of the gates . $ 20 million project , quarter-century in the making and financed by the artists christo and jeanne-claude , will be made up of bases supporting 7,500 gates festooned with saffron-colored fabric panels along 23 miles of parks ' pedestrian walkways -- from 59th street to 110th street .
 article on questions about ethics policies and management at j paul_getty museum in wake of investigation of acquisition of millions of dollars of looted antiquities by curator marion true . true faces trial in rome on november 16 on criminal charges of conspiring with two art dealers to acquire looted antiquities , including 12 objects from more than 300 masterworks of greek , roman and etruscan art collected by lawrence and barbara_fleischman , which museum acquired in 1996 . museum and parent , j paul_getty trust , face exodus of high-level staff members . los angeles times , citing leaked getty documents , reports that museum had strong indications by mid-1980 ` s that it was acquiring dubious antiquities .
 many senate republicans say they are eager to challenge new bipartisan deal on judicial nominees as senate votes 81 to 18 to cut off debate on nomination of justice_priscilla_r_owen . sen larry_e_craig , idaho republican , says he wants a vote soon after memorial day on nomination of william_g_myers_iii , candidate whose fate was left uncertain in deal . congressional black caucus criticizes senate democrats for agreeing to allow votes on two other nominees , justice janice_rogers and william_pryor , who have records that caucus members consider hostile to civil rights laws .
 article on tour of classic_university_football stadiums in midwestern us , including memorial stadium at university_of_illinois , notre dame stadium at university_of_notre_dame in south bend , ind , michigan stadium at university_of_michigan in ann_arbor and ryan field in evanston and what is left of stadium at university_of_chicago in illinois .
 bill clinton and bob_dole engage in their first of 10 brief exchanges on cbs 's 60 minutes , clinton arguing that cost of establishing peace in iraq will so drain treasury that country should forgo a tax cut and dole saying nation can afford both . there is none of bellowing or name calling common elsewhere in televised political debate , and each man is gets chance to express sustained thought without interruption .
 empire state_recovery_corp takes back $ 1.2 million in erroneous payments to downtown new_york businesses realing from 9/11 attacks . applications were not necessarily fraudulent , but those that are will be referred for investigation . continuing federal audit estimates that about 1 percent of $ 558 million awarded by world trade center business recovery grant program may have been overpaid .
 dan_barry about new_york column on closing of mcdonald_'s restaurant in belmont section of bronx . says protests nine years ago tried to stop opening of mcdonald 's on arthur_avenue , which is dedicated almost entirely to italian food , over fears it would destroy flavor of area . says neighborhood feels vindicated over mcdonald 's closing .
 strategy of engagement with north_korea has transformed south_korea in important and often unexpected ways . for decades , it was illegal in south_korea to say anything positive about kim_il_sung , founder of north_korea . now high school textbooks in south credit kim for first time for his role in combating japanese colonialism . this has fed roiling debate in south about changing relations with north and united_states and about politicization of history during cold war .
 oil is being pumped again in venezuela after paralyzing national strike , with production topping two million barrels per day . government planners are busily rebuilding and reorganizing state-owned petroleos de venezuela , wondering how to function with 40 percent fewer workers . officials predict that venezuela 's oil industry will soon churn out 3.1 million barrels daily , matching prestrike level . petroleos de venezuela has lost $ 4 billion in exports and nearly 16,000 workers , fired by government for taking part in walkout aimed at debilitating pres hugo_chavez 's left-leaning government . financial blow and loss of experienced workers could permanently hurt company .
 pres bush campaigns across southwest_michigan , assailing sen john_kerry 's health care proposal and saying it would result in nationalized health care . bush comes close to comparing kerry 's plans to those advocated by pres bill_clinton and hillary_rodham_clinton in early 1990 's , which turned into political liability for democrats . portrays kerry as traditional , big-government liberal , and warns that taxes would have to be raised to pay for kerry 's plan .
 iraqi governing council is questioning why american_occupation_authority issued $ 20 million contract to buy new revolvers and kalishnikov rifles for iraqi police when thousands of weapons are confiscated from saddam_hussein 's former arsenal every month . is challenging occupation administrator l paul_bremer_iii regarding american decision to spend $ 1.2 billion to train 35,000 iraqi police in jordan when training could be done in iraq at fraction of cost . congress also is seeking to examine how occupation authority and military are spending money . iraqi officials and businessmen charge that millions of dollars in contracts are being awarded without competitive bidding .
 international olympic committee votes to hold 2010 winter olympics in vancouver , british_columbia . vancouver edges out pyeongchang , south_korea by narrow margin . salzburg , austria comes in distant third place . vancouver 's victory could make new_york_city 's bid to host 2012 summer olympics more challenging because committee might be reluctant to hold two consecutive olympics in north_america .
 republican alfred b curtis and democrat diane_savino are running against each other in 23rd state_senate district , which covers part of state_island and brooklyn . curtis would become sole black member of senate 's republican majority if he is elected . savino 's election would make her first woman to represent staten_island in state_senate . sen seymour_p_lachman , democrat , is not running for re-election . curtis and savino photos .
 china 's auto parts exports have increased more than sixfold in past five years , at almost $ 1 billion in april , emerging as one of fastest growing categories in chinese industrial products sold overseas . manufacturers like wonder auto technology and wanxiang group find success by modeling businesses after united_states auto parts companies like delphi automotive systems and visteon and taking advantage of cheaper labor in country to increase bottom line .
 several of new_york_city 's largest real estate brokerages report that prices and number of apartments selling in manhattan rose in first_three_months_of_this_year_from_fourth_quarter_of 2006 . sales volume is up 12 percent , and average price for apartment , including co-ops and condominiums , is up 6 percent .
 white_house_questions_global_ability_of_drug_enforcement_administration to stem flow of narcotics and threatens to give agency smallest budget increase in 15 years . scathing assessment by office_of_managament_and_budget as part of bush administration 's budget plan says agency lacks clear long-term strategies and goals , managers are not held accountable , and financial controls have failed to comply with federal standards . fiscal 2004 budget will leave financing of agency essentially flat , at $ 1.56 billion .
 cellphone use in latin_america , even for poor , has become way of life . subscribers rose from fewer than 40 million in 1999 to 118 million today , turning one in five latin americans into cellphone user and making this $ 20.4 billion market . venezuela has latin_america 's second-higest rate of cellphone use , after chile .
 alessandra stanley article on abc 's programming problems that led to millions of dollars of losses in each of past three years . says failure of program who wants to be a millionaire in 2000 , and parent company walt disney_co 's quick , unsuccessful effort to keep show alive , was first sign of trouble . scores abc 's decision to hire jaime_tarses as programming head . network 's unsuccessful attempts to stop ratings slide with new programming discussed .
 rep edolphus towns faces tough challenges for 13th consecutive term representing brooklyn 's 10th congressional district . councilman charles_barron is in race , and assemblyman roger l green and kevin_powell weigh campaigns . major labor unions pledge to work against towns for his vote for central american free trade agreement . other candidates criticize him for many missed votes , lackluster record and scarce appearances in district . towns has strained relationship with brooklyn_democratic_party leader , assemblyman vito_j_lopez .
 hundreds of coptic christians gather at st_george and st_shenouda_coptic_orthodox_church in jersey city to mourn four members of armanious family and decry their killing as crime of religious hatred . hossam_armanious , his wife , amal_garas , and their two daughters , all coptic christians from egypt , were found on jan 14 with their throats slashed . mourners say islamic egyptian are responsible . police say that there is no evidence of bias and that money was stolen during crime .
 mitt romney , whose presidential campaign leads republican primary field in fund-raising , spent nearly 60 percent of $ 20.7 million he raised in first_quarter , setting breakneck pace for start of 2008 race . rudolph w giuliani , runner-up in fund-raising among republicans , spent over 40 percent of $ 13.8 million his campaign brought in , leaving both candidates with roughly same amount in bank as of beginning of april .
 investigation into how republicans handled concerns about rep mark_foley 's conduct with house pages may hinge on what transpired year ago , when private meeting was hastily convened in foley 's office with jeff_trandahl , clerk_of_house , rep john_shimkus , republican who leads board overseeing congressional page program , foley and his chief of staff elizabeth_nicolson . shimkus later said he ordered foley to ` cease all contact ' with teenage page , but scope of his questioning is unclear . that meeting will be examined by bipartisan , four-member panel that will deepen its inquiry into matter . one of main tasks will be to sort out conflicting versions of events , including whether speaker dennis_hastert 's chief of staff , scott_palmer , was alerted to foley 's conduct in 2003 . palmer has denied such warning . photos . timeline of events in unfolding scandal .
 article on continuing efforts by montclair , milburn , roseland and some other new jersey communities to secede from essex_county and join morris_county . handful of mostly wealthy towns contend they pay more in county taxes than what they get in return . unspoken crux of issue is growing cost of essex_county 's overstressed criminal justice system and demands that newark places on outlying municipalities .
 homicides in new_york_city are at 40 year low , but unsolved crimes still remain to unsettle . clearance rate for homicide in 2002 is 75 percent , above national average of 64 percent but below 1997 high of 88 percent . police say nature of crimes has changed to more drug-related killings and those where victim and perpetrator do not know each other . also say that many expererienced detectives have retired .
 local and national business interests that stand to profit from sale of alcohol are combining their political and financial muscle to try to persuade hundreds of dry towns and counties to go wet . they are changing face of once staunchly prohibitionist bible belt . business groups since 2002 have spent upwards of $ 15 million on campaigns , including professional lobbyists , to persuade voters in some 200 dry towns and 25 dry counties in six southern_states to legalize alcohol sales in stores and restaurants . wal-mart has financed dozens of local elections , contributing from $ 5,000 to $ 20,000 a campaign . attempts to allow alcohol sales in other places that remain dry are meeting fierce resistance from some church groups and religious leaders . more dry-to-wet measures have passed than have been defeated in last_four_years in texas , alabama , kentucky , north_carolina , tennessee and kansas .
 article on lv-51 lightship , launched in 1892 , which was struck by barge and sank off old saybrook , conn , and aunt polly , yacht owned by actor william gillette which caught fire and sank in connecticut_river off east_haddam in 1932 . connecticut_historical_commission hopes to name two wreck sites as state 's first underwater preserves , protect and document their conditions and publish booklets chronicling their histories .
 article on lucrative compensation packages available to chief executives when merger occurs . says caesars_entertainment_chief_wallace_r_barr stands to receive almost $ 20 million from harrah 's acquisition of company . holds southtrust chief executive wallace_d_malone_jr will receive $ 59 million in termination awards as result of wachovia 's acquisition of southtrust . notes california public employees ' retirement system voted against last month 's merger of anthem_inc and wellpoint_health_networks , citing excessive pay .
 jonathan_fuerbringer column on treasury bond market outlook . says slowdown in buying by bond traders , especially foreign central banks , does not appear to have had great impact on interest rates . yield on 10-year us_treasury note is 4.13 percent , down from june high of 4.87 and below 4.25 percent at end of last year .
 unanimous supreme_court rules that federal bankruptcy law shields individual retirement accounts from creditors . decision gives middle-income consumers same protection in bankruptcy that higher-paid workers receive for their 401 -lrb- k -rrb- plans and company pensions . decision is victory for arkansas couple , richard and betty_jo_rousey , who sought to shield $ 65,000 in their two ira 's when they filed for bankruptcy in 2001 .
 suicide bomber blows herself up outside landmark national hotel near red square in moscow , killing at least five other people and seriously wounding 13 more . photos . map . scene of chaos and carnage on snowy morning brings terrorism to heart of russia , two days after national elections . explosion wrecks parked cars , shatters windows and scatters human remains along street next to kremlin wall . pres vladimir_putin , who was at meeting inside , does not mention chechnya in statement but attack resembles others in separatist war . chronology of 11 chechen bombings this year .
 jennifer_dunning critic 's notebook column on slow return of dancing to hollywood movies , prompted by success of film version of chicago . company , robert_altman 's backstage ballet film , is due out in december and remakes of dirty dancing -lrb- dirty dancing : havana nights -rrb- and shall we dance . , starring richard_gere and jennifer_lopez , are slated for 2004 release . some past dance films available on video discussed . list .
 op-ed article by tony_judt , director of remarque_institute_at_new_york_university , contends that election crisis in ukraine and interference of russian pres vladimir_putin is example of problems european_union will confront in coming decades at its eastern edge . holds that democratic ukraine would pose conundrum for europe . also maintains that eurocats oppose turkey 's entry into union because they believe that large islamic country is inherently un-european .
 microsoft , more than two years after european_commission found company guilty of abusing its market dominance and ordered it to unbundle media player from its windows operating system , is set for final round of antitrust dispute . court of first instance is set to debate microsoft 's request for reduction of original 497 million euro fine . company plans to argue that its behavior has not harmed competition .
 bob_herbert op-ed column says depth of denial in white_house about terrible things happening in iraq is made manifest by pres bush 's awarding of medal of freedom to george_tenet , former cia director , l paul_bremmer_iii , former chief civilian administrator of american_occupation , and gen tommy_franks , who led invasion .
 new book natural history of madagascar gives detailed account of isolated island 's organisms . many scientists hold that madagascar has greatest diversity of native , unique species of any island in world . co-editors dr steve_goodman , field museum , chicago , ornithologist and mammalogist who lives in madagascar , and dr jonathan p benstead , marine biological laboratory in woods hole ecologist , are hopeful that 1,700-page book will entice eco-tourism to region . 101 mammals now inhabiting madagascar are thought to have evolved from arrival of just four creatures . challenge of island terrain described .
 nbc entertainment president jeff_zucker claims nbc 's tonight show has vanquished cbs 's late show after ten-year battle for supremacy in late-night television . tonight show star jay_leno has opened up his biggest lead in five years , with 5.8 million viewers to 3.8 million for david_letterman . enjoys biggest edge ever in rivalry for coveted 18-to-49-year-old viewers . letterman side cites weakness of cbs 's 10 pm and late news shows and new quirks in ratings system . letterman seems unwilling to take any special steps to deal with ratings falloff , putting tens of millions of dollars in advertising revenue at risk . ratings graph .
 chicago unveils sculptor mary_brogger 's memorial to 1886 haymarket bombing in which seven police officers and several bystanders at labor rally were killed . calamity was crucial episode in american history and union leaders to this day revere memory of four labor leaders unjustly executed for murder , and later pardoned . city , union and police officials at ceremony note that hatreds of late 19th century have given way to friendship and solidarity .
 david_pogue profile of joe_clark , technical director of metropolitan opera for 24 years . focuses on challenges involved in putting up and taking down complicated scenery without interfering with performances and rehearsals . clark comments on being technical director for met 's production of die walkure , second installment of its complete staging of wagner 's 17-hour , four-opera ` ring ' cycle . ` ring ' presentation is met 's sixth in otto_schenk production from 1988 , and clark has overseen all six stagings .
 fighting escalates between rival palestinian factions hamas and fatah , with hamas taking over much of northern_gaza_strip in situation increasingly like civil war . fighting is becoming more organized and leaders of both hamas and fatah are targets , after five days of revenge attacks on individuals . palestinian pres mahmoud abbas faces increasing pressure to abandon unity government he supported and to try again to order new elections , which hamas vows to oppose . israeli officials are debating whether fatah can stand up to hamas in gaza . aid officials say humanitarian situation in gaza is desperate .
 article on how actor benjamin_brooks_cohen has organized fellow cast members in gypsy to volunteer outside tkts booth in manhattan to urge people on line to buy tickets to show . show has been averaging sales of more than 300 half-price tickets a day , compared with less than 200 a day , since cohen 's grass-roots campaign began on march 10 .
 sen john_kerry 's grandparents , frederick and ida_kohn , converted from judaism to roman catholicism and then changed name to kerry in 1901 , before emigrating from czech region of austro-hungarian empire to america . sen kerry did not know this story until reporter for boston_globe told him last year that genealogist in vienna discovered records .
 democrats say economy and war in iraq have taken disproportionate toll on rural communities and vow that struggle for votes there will be far more competitive than in 2000 , when pres bush won decisive margins among rural and small-town voters . bush campaign , refusing to cede ground , is running targeted ads . vice pres cheney and sen john_kerry will each spend weekend on bus trips through rural midwest . republican pollsters dismiss notion of consensus in rural america , but also say kerry will have hard time making inroads .
 r w apple jr reports on conference in great_milton , england , at which ranking chefs , food experts and others from united_states are seeking to persuade their french and british counterparts that american gastronomy has come of age . says they have succeeded for most part . notes panel discussions on state of restaurant art on both sides of atlantic and tasting food of chefs like wylie_dufresne and thomas_keller , with alice_waters and charlie_trotter still to come . gathering is brainchild of raymond_blanc , french-born british chef . photo of blanc with daniel_boulud . other photos .
 pres bush has set ambitious goal in iraq , not just ousting saddam_hussein , but fostering creation of genuinely democratic and prosperous iraq and ultimately remaking middle_east . split with european allies on war reflects divergent outlooks for success , with americans hopeful and europeans fearing that creation of american_colony in iraq will do more to stoke radicalism throughout middle_east than to contain it .
 bush administration officials say pres bush agreed at meeting with state_sec_colin_l_powell to begin talks in united_nations_security_council to authorize multinational force for iraq , but insisted that troops be under american command . decision , key strategy shift , is tacit admission that us-dominated force is stretched too thin . comes as congressional budget office study shows army lacks active-duty troops to keep current occupation force in iraq past next march , without extra help from other services , reserves or other nations or without vastly expanding its size . official says bush envisions withdrawing most american forces within 18 months to two years , to be replaced by un peacekeeping force .
 mayor michael_bloomberg , who finances own races and makes tightening of campaign funding rules centerpiece of his agenda , draws attention of federal_election_commission auditors for giving upstate repr john_e_sweeney two checks totaling $ 4,000 , which were put in sweeney 's republican primary account . photo . $ 2,000 is limit , and sweeney staff says rest should have gone to general campaign . bloomberg contributes to congressmen who can help steer federal domestic security funds to new_york_city . sweeney photo .
 new_york_stock_exchange directors announce that john_s_reed , former citicorp chief executive , will serve as interim chairman and oversee_exchange 's efforts at reform . reed is outsider at big_board but no stranger to boardrooms , with reputation over long banking career for iconoclastic thinking . sees his job as one of corporate governance . says he has seen crises similar to one at nyse as member of many corporate boards . says he expects to serve for matter of months , and wil be paid $ 1 a year . says he never met richard_a_grasso , predecessor at nyse who resigned amid furor over his receipt of $ 130.5 million in deferred compensation .
 mark_latham , spirited new leader of australia 's opposition labor_party , who leads conservative prime min john_howard in polls , campaigns on pledge to bring australia 's troops home from iraq by christmas . australia , because of peculiarities of its history and place in world , is unlikely to abandon united_states ties . most australians believe us would honor commitment to defend australia should it come under attack . latham 's personal approval rating dropped sharply after he vowed to pull out of iraq .
 shin joong-hyun , 68 , is known as godfather of rock ` n ' roll for popularizing genre in south_korea . he was known as jackie_shin on us_army bases in postwar south_korea . government banned his songs in 1972 after he refused to write song glorifying nation 's military dictator , park chung-hee . ban was lifted after park was assassinated in 1979 . shin has recently been rediscovered in new south_korea that has left him bewildered , and little embittered .
 david_brooks op-ed column notes that chris_suellentrop , who writes opinionator column on timesselect , has reported that securities_and_exchange_commission has filed court documents alleging that in 2000 jerome_armstrong , co-author and onetime business partner of daily kos editor markos_moulitsas , touted dubious software stock on web site in exchange for secret payments , and moulitsas , in letter to hundreds of his fellow bloggers , tried to confine story .
 sen john_edwards , looking for upset in new_york democratic presidential primary , attends rallies in brooklyn and albany . sen john_kerry seeks to shore up support among upstate residents . both comment on contentious morning debate . daily news and newsday , which serve new_york_city , endorse kerry . albany_times_union , atlanta journal-constitution and akron_beacon_journal also endorse him .
 voters in stark_county , ohio , political bellwether and battleground , say intense attention from campaigns of pres bush and sen kerry has made them interested and involved , but also stressed because of inescapable ads and events that wash into every corner of daily life . photo . more than $ 40 million has been spent in cleveland media market that includes canton and stark county .
 shepardson_stern_&_kaminsky is among several ad agencies seeking to help delta_air_lines regain its lofty reputation after spending almost 20 months in federal bankruptcy protection . campaign focuses delta 's improvements and changes that will be made . other agencies participating in $ 10 million campaign include carat entertainment , part of aegis group , dan_klores communications , lippincott_mercer , part of marsh_&_mclennan_cos , media kitchen , unit of mdc partners and modern media , division of digitas .
 south_korea is quietly becoming weighty investor in asia , with multinationals like hyundai and samsung proving to be tenacious matches for japanese , american and european companies in china and elsewhere in region . has emerged as largest single source of foreign investment in china , making $ 6.25 billion in fixed investments there in 2004 . korean manufacturers are looking abroad to achieve powerful growth rates they only recently enjoyed at home , from exports and rising domestic demand . much of growth is supported by strengthening currency , the won , which gained more than 15 percent against dollar in 2004 .
 incumbent gerhard_schroder and challenger angela_merkel both claim mandate to govern as chancellor after german electorate fails to give any party or candidate clear majority . results give merkel 's right-of-center christian_democratic union highest vote total , about 35.2 percent , not enough to win absolute majority in parliament with its main coalition partner , pro-business free democratic party . schroder 's social democratic party gets 34.3 percent , losing slender majority in parliament it has had with its partner , greens , which has enabled schroder to govern for seven years . given deeply divided vote , next days and weeks will be taken up by intense negotiations among country 's political parties seeking to forge coalition that will give one of candidates parliamentary majority needed to become chancellor .
 article on formidable challenges that lie ahead for barnes_foundation as result of court decision allowing art collection worth more than $ 25 billion to move from suburban merion to downtown philadelphia . barnes must expand its board , collect $ 100 million in pledges , raise at least $ 50 million more for endowment , figure out how to cover its interim operating costs , select architect and decide how to continue its education mission .
 jennifer_conlin travel article on ` hip family hotels ' that are cropping up around world that , unlike those that cater exclusively to children and their needs , pamper both parents and children in sophisticated , fashionable environment . amenities at cowley_manor in gloucestershire and charlotte street hotel in london , delano in miami_beach , hotel costes and la tremoille in paris , roosevelt_hotel in hollywood , calif , and w san_francisco described .
 fbi agents reportedly met in recent days with deputy defense sec paul_d_wolfowitz and defense under sec douglas j_feith to discuss case of defense_dept analyst lawrence_a_franklin , who is suspected of turning over classified policy document to israel . meetings are said to have been briefings rather than interviews . it remains unclear whether either man was asked any questions about knowledge of franklin 's activities . so far , no charges in case have been brought .
 news analysis of vicious brawl between france and britain that wrecked european_union summit meeting . says europe 's disarray may divert attention from challenges blair faces closer to home , and enable him to rewrite timetable of his third term in office . says his bold maneuver to mold europe 's agenda might be effort to resuscitate global role he once pursued as bridge between united_states and europe .
 article on caucasian_chamber_orchestra , created two years ago by german conductor uwe_berkemer and made up of musicians from all over the caucasus . his goal was to demonstrate that music is unifying force , but politics has kept azerbaijan musicians from participating . orchestra made its debut this month at batumi music festival in batumi , georgian republic .
 growing number of people are dropping dial-up connections from services like aol , msn and earthlink because so much internet content now requires high-speed connections for performance . sg cowen report shows 36 american homes , or 52 percent of all households with internet access , used dial-up services last year . percentage is expected to drop to 40 percent at end of year . cable and phone companies are expected to add 8 million broadband subscribers this year , bringing their total to 38.7 million . phone companies like sbc and verizon are hoping lower prices and extra services will bring in new customers .
 con edison officials disclose at new_york_city_council hearing that they found 1,214 instances of stray voltage during yearlong examination of electrical equipment on city streets . testing requirements were imposed under state rules adopted in january 2005 after jodie_s_lane was killed in 2004 when she stepped on metal plate in east_village . despite con ed efforts , there has been series of mishaps around city highlighting risks of stray voltage . utility will acquire five vehicle-mounted stray-voltage detection machines to speed its work .
 police are holding michael_devlin in kidnapping of shawn_hornbeck and william_`_ben_'_ownby . devlin is said to have confessed . hornbeck vanished on oct_6_, 2002 , and was held in two-room apartment in suburban st louis . break came in case when police serving warrant in unrelated case spotted pickup truck that matched description of truck seen speeding away after ownby 's disappearance on jan 8 .
 judge sterling johnson jr overrules defense objections in federal court in new_york and allows witness in trial of mohammed ali_hassan_al-moayad to describe stay at qaeda training camp in afghanistan . yahya_goba tells engrossed jurors of trainees welcoming osama bin laden with song . ruling also reflects sharp improvement in fortunes of federal prosecutors in case . goba is one of six men from lackawanna , new_york , who have pleaded guilty to training with terrorists .
 investigation into manhunt for terrorist khalid shaikh mohammed reveals evidence that top government officials in qatar tipped him off as fbi closed in on him in early 1996 after his involvement in botched terror operation in philippines . many us officials now believe that , as result , they missed their best chance to prevent september 11 terrorist attacks on new_york and washington . only rebuke against qatar was stinging letter from then-fbi director louis_freeh .
 interview with john_j_gibbons , retired federal judge who is preparing to go in front of supreme_court to argue against bush administration 's policy of holding prisoners at guantanamo_naval_base without legal representation . is director of newark law firm of gibbons , del deo , dolan , griffinger_&_vecchione and does much pro bono work for indigents .
 grand palais in paris will host contemporary art triennial with 350 works by 200 artists who are french or reside in france . show was initiated by prime minister dominique_de_villepin and some artists have called exhibition ` eminently political ' and refused to participate . french government responded to such claims by expanding its commitment to contemporary art by founding $ 128 million european center for contemporary creativity and sponsoring paris calling , season of contemporary art from france in britain with 30 exhibitions .
 american_airlines flight from tokyo is held on tarmac in san_jose , california , for two hours after several passengers complain of symptoms that could be severe acute respiratory syndrome . sars is not diagnosed . us has had 59 reported cases but no fatalities . two more people die in canada , both linked to outbreak at toronto hospital , bringing death toll in canada to six . state department to allow nonessential us personnnel to leave posts in hong_kong and guangzhou , china , as business and other travel to region is curtailed sharply . photos . map . chronology of outbreak .
 former new_york_city mayor rudolph_w_giuliani leads attacks as republicans strike back at democrats on final day of convention . questions sen kerry 's commitment to fighting terrorism and accuses him of distancing himself from senate record . appears at rally and for more than dozen interviews . calls kerry and sen john_edwards liberals who lack conviction . republicans have been visible presence throughout convention , with party chairman ed_gillespie making numerous television appearances .
 fbi arrests six suspects in raids in virginia , maryland and pennsylvania on charges of stockpiling weapons and conspiring to wage ` jihad ' against india in support of kashmir_terrorist_group_lashkar-e-taiba . two other men were arrested earlier in month and three others remain at large in saudi_arabia . officials say there is no evidence of plot against us . say nine of 11 suspects are american citizens and three have spent time in us military .
 neil_genzlinger thanksgiving week jersey column on what is important and what is not , discusses long lines at dump and short lines on election day , perpetually late commuter trains and art exhibit at montclair_art_museum organized by daniela_mendelsohn , whose teenage cousin , naomi_cohain , died of bone cancer eight years ago .
 amtrak 's inspector general says financially beleaguered railroad is losing $ 130 million a year on its dining cars and cafe cars . some bush administration officials suggest that amtrak_eliminate_food_service . amtrak 's senior vice pres for operations william_l_crosbie_tells_house subcommittee that some food service is essential . inspector general fred e weiderhold jr says amtrak 's biggest problem is its labor cost , about three and half times average for restaurants . notes amtrak 's work force is unionized and receives health and other benefits . railroad reports reaching tentative theory about why brakes cracked on acela_express trains and how to fix them and have them running by july .
 new york court of appeals judge_george_bundy_smith seeks reappointment to second term but reputation as most liberal judge on court may affect decision by gov george_e_pataki . had opposed pataki on death penalty and pataki is seen as wanting to replace smith and thereby keep moving court to right . smith is only black on court and his liberal views may lead to problems with confirmation by state_senate .
 group of 728 men , women and children formed line at algonquin arts theater in manasquan , nj , on august 17 in hopes of breaking guinness world record for assembling longest dance kick line . crowd , led by handful of former rockettes and aspiring rockettes , surpassed record of 535 set by princeton_university 's triangle_club in 1991 .
 scheduled meeting between ehud_olmert , prime minister of israel , and mahmoud_abbas , palestinian president , has been postponed over issue of tax revenues that israel collects for palestinians . israel has refused to transfer most of tax revenues to palestinian authority since hamas came to power in early 2006 . saeb erekat , chief palestinian negotiator , says tax revenues constitute 61 percent of palestinian authority 's revenues and that without them ` palestinian social fabric ' is disintegrating .
 plan to reduce number of cars clogging london streets is set to take effect . motorists driving to central london during business hours will have to pay 5 pounds , about $ 8 . mayor ken_livingstone has staked his political reputation on success of program , saying he expects it to cut traffic by 10 to 15 percent , but many londoners are vehemently opposed . other cities in europe and united_states are scrutinizing program . questions about technology , which relies on network of video cameras , are rife . details of plan noted .
 francis_x_morrissey jr , lawyer who advised brooke_astor on estate planning , was suspended from practicing law in new_york state for two years in 1990 's and accused in court of mishandling client 's account and trying to profit improperly from friend 's estate . morrissey 's work for astor was done arranged through astor 's son anthony d marshall . kenneth e warner , lawyer for marshall , says his client did not know about morrissey 's past legal problems and doubts astor did .
 new_york_state_gov_eliot_spitzer will propose $ 120 billion budget , increasing overall spending by 6.3 percent . reconciles his campaign promises to increase funds for education -lrb- $ 1.4 billion -rrb- and lower property taxes -lrb- $ 1.5 billion -rrb- while making health insurance available to all of state 's children and increasing aid to distressed municipalities . to achieve goals he will propose changes in medicaid allocation and education aid . spitzer expects battle with legislature over his budget proposal , especially republican-controlled senate .
 gustavo_arcos_bergnes op-ed article recalls being political prisoner along with fidel_castro under fulgencio_batista regime and later as prisoner of castro regime . says violent revolutionaries of 1950 's were treated far more humanely than non-violent dissidents are treated today . says fitting way for castro to honor anniversary of 1953 attack that began revolution would be to show his political prisoners magnanimity that he himself benefited from 50 years ago , by improving prison conditions and granting amnesties .
 bustle around new_york tech meetup , which began with just four attendees last year , reflects lively interest in new_york 's silicon_alley . number of new-media companies have been involved in heady high-dollar deals that carry faint but alluring whiff of 1990 's and startups are popping up again . new_york software industry assn has opened technology incubator at its broad street headquarters that now houses 14 new cmopanies . some of new start-ups noted .
 landmark theaters , art-house chain controlled by mark cuban and todd_wagner , will become first chain to install new generation of digital projectors developed by sony , which shows movies at twice resolution of previous digital projectors . landmark will buy six of sony projectors when they become available in july , and over next few years will install others in all 58 of its theaters .
 pres bush plans to meet with ford_motor chief executive william_clay_ford , rick_wagoner of general_motors and thomas_lasorda of chrysler at white_house on may 18 . talks will focus on energy and environment , costs like pensions and health care premiums that add to price of american cars and how currency issues affect japanese automakers . ford , in interview , says he wants to use meeting to lobby government to finance national delivery system for ethanol .
 european aeronautic_defense and space co announces resignation of christian_streiff , who took helm of airbus_industrie in july . streiff will be succeeded by french co-chief executive of eads , louis_gallois . shake-up comes after clash between streiff and eads executives over how much autonomy he had to overhaul airbus , which has been plagued by manufacturing chaos and delays in delivery of its flagship plane , a380 .
 clyde_haberman , in nyc column , notes that martha_stewart is about to begin serving 5-month sentence in federal women 's prison for lying to investigators about stock transaction . holds that judge_miriam_goldman_cedarbaum rejected rep nydia_m_velazquez 's recommendation that stewart tutor poor women at maura_clarke-ita_ford_center in bedford-stuyvesant , brooklyn , in her entrepreneurial savvy and house-and-garden skills .
 nomination of rep porter j goss to head central intelligence agency may be buying pres bush as much trouble as he is trying to overcome at cia in wake of run of epic intelligence failures . appointment is both effort to improve cia performance and political act in closing months of presidential election campaign . move to head off accusations that vacancy on national security team leaves nation vulnerable may ignite noisy confirmation fight with senate democrats that could reopen questions about cia performance during bush administration . republicans and democrats question whether bush willfully starts partisan fight that will let him argue democrats block key national security appointment .
 hmong community in wisconsin and minnesota fears shooting death of hunter_cha_vang_north of green_bay , wis , may be retaliation for shooting deaths of six white hunters by another unrelated hmong , chai_soua_vang in 2005 . police are holding james_allen_nichols on charges of parole violation and firearms possession , and describe him as person of interest in present case . many hmong stopped hunting after 2005 killings , fearful that larger community would be held responsible .
 takeover of western companies by indians is seen by many in india as reversal of fortune : once-proud civilization that became colony is now buying out once-hallowed corporations of west . value of overseas bids by indians soared to $ 21 billion last year from less than $ 1 billion in 2000 . many investors question whether indian companies can manage difficult and nuanced process of integrating foreign company into indian corporation . recent acquisitions discussed .
 online registrations provided by political_action_committee_moveon.org indicate that organization recruited more than 4,000 supporters who gave parties linked to release of michael_moore 's movie fahrenheit 9/11 , with at least one in all 50 states and washington , dc . moveon executive director eli_pariser announces plans for phone parties on july 11 in which organization 's supporters would call unregistered voters in swing states . conservative group move america forward organizes advance screening of disney_documentary_america 's heart and soul , due for release on july 2 .
 sen john_kerry promises to modernize military and to add 40,000 troops , including doubling size of special forces , speech in independence , mo . charges bush administration has not done enough to adapt forces to modern challenges . vows to redeploy national_guard as core element of domestic security . denounces bush administration 's new policy extending tours of soldiers bound for iraq and afghanistan . warns nation is dangerously unprepared , having committed 90 percent of its active-duty army divisions to iraq . says administration is too focused on classic , conventional threats and not equipped to fight terrorism .
 jury in double-murder trial of scott_peterson says he should be put to death for murdering pregnant wife laci and fetus , redwood_city , calif . decision comes after three days of deliberations and nearly two years of nationwide obsession with story of young fertilizer salesman and his pregnant wife laci . judge alfred a delucchi will formally sentence peterson .
 article on series ruling party , on republican ascension in washington , describes social scene that is far more subdued than during clinton or reagan years . early-to-bed and early-to-rise is general rule and new senate leader bill_frist is , like pres bush , disciplined early riser and fitness buff who fits right into early-morning administration . bushes have held just two state dinners and socialize mostly with old friends like white_house personnel director clay_johnson 3d and his wife ann . low-key socializing by non-drinking , non-schmoozing president contrasts sharply with glamorous reagan parties . photo of laura_bush with white_house pastry chef roland mesnier last july . she has gone to kennedy_center about 15 times , often with texas friends , and bushes do venture out with friends to favorite restaurants like peking gourmet inn in arlington .
 eastman kodak_co , officially acknoledging that era of soaring sales and huge profits from film is gone , will concentrate on bolstering its digital businesses and will cut its dividend by more than two-thirds to finance effort . says sales , which were $ 12.8 billion last year , will be $ 16 billion by 2006 . adds much of growth will come from acquisitions and that ever-shrinking percentage will come from conventional photography . company 's shares drop 18 percent , to $ 22.15 , on word of dividend cut .
 russia 's farmland in far_east is drawing reverse migration as russian youths abandon farm villages for city . there are five south korean commercial farms on leased land and 2,390 chinese farm workers and sharecroppers in primorye , or maritime province . russia is still net food importer from china , but trend is shifting fast . russian land tenure law that went into effect last year allows foreigners to sign 49-year leases for farmland .
 labatt_usa will be beer sponsor for the best damn sports show period beginning jan 7 on fox sports net . deal calls for cameos by bear mascot featured in recent labatt blue commercials . home depot will follow next month via new set simulating backyard deck where hosts , including tom_arnold and chris_rose , will regularly talk sports . deal is valued at $ 1 million to $ 2 million .
 unknown visitor has been placing campbell 's tomato soup can and pocketful of change on andy_warhol 's tombstone in st john the baptist cemetery in bethel_park , pa , every month since his death in 1987 . warhol 's brother , john_warhola , defends his decision to have andy buried in his hometown , next to his mother , rather than in new_york , where he gained fame . claire_gibson tends grave , which was dug by her husband .
 opening of esprit store in early september at fifth avenue and 16th street will be beginning of broad effort to re-establish clothing brand in new_york metropolitan area , and eventually rest of country . company has signed leases for four stores in suburban malls and is negotiating to open stores in soho and columbus circle . plans to open 20 to 25 stores in new_york area . chief executive heinz krogner comments .
 veronica_campbell -lrb- jamaica -rrb- wins women 's 200-meter race at 2004 olympics . allyson_felix -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and debbie_ferguson -lrb- bahamas -rrb- wins bronze . fani_halkia -lrb- greece -rrb- wins 400-meter hurdles . ionela tirlea-manolache -lrb- romania -rrb- wins silver and tetyana_tereshchuk-antipova -lrb- ukraine -rrb- wins bronze .
 op-ed article by nayan_chanda says china 's thirst for energy is dictating its decision to deepen port at gwadar , pakistan , as alternative supply route . says port will be boon to regional economy . says india and united_states should welcome china 's contribution to expanded maritime commerce and additonal sense of security beijing might derive from it . says china should be warned against using gwadar port for its military .
 atlanta is divided over proposal to rename hartsfield_international_airport to honor memory of three-term mayor maynard_h_jackson , who helped expand it into world 's busiest hub . was named after william_b_hartsfield , city 's longest-serving mayor . debate has racial overtones since jackson was black and hartsfield white . touches on fears of some blacks that era of black political dominance in city , which jackson ushered in , may be nearing end .
 three ad campaigns by political groups harshly critical of pres bush get under way in 17 states , to counter early republican commercials . photos . largest uses $ 17 million in unlimited donations that political parties can no longer collect , but groups are stepping in to help sen john_kerry offset bush 's 10-to-1 fund-raising advantage . $ 70 million in pledged donations will set up expansive voter drives while fighting bush on issues . independent groups are barred from coordinating with kerry campaign or democratic party .
 state and federal officials are looking into series of errors and technical breakdowns last week that delayed issuing of tsunami warning to millions of people in san_francisco_bay area . scientists are worried that 7.2-magnitude earthquake that struck 80 miles off coast of northern_california might generate tsunami . warnings were received elsewhere in california but not in san_francisco area .
 canadian dollar has risen smartly in value this year , reaching 72.12 cents , its highest level in more than five years . canadian exporters get 14 percent less of their own money for every american dollar they earn . exporters are feeling pain with 85 percent of canada 's exports going to us . canadian manufacturers and exporters says jump in canadian dollar is threatening profit margins across canadian industry and will be significant drag on economic and employment growth this year .
 bronx restaurant deliveryman ming_kuang_chen spends three days trapped in express elevator at tracey towers apartment complex , as police search all around him , sending bloodhounds into van cortlandt park and scuba divers into reservoir . chen says he kept yelling as he sat for 81 hours , stuck between third and fourth floors of express elevator that has no doors between second and 21st floors . photos . chen , who speaks little english , says his intercom calls were not understood . management says security cameras were working and intercom and alarm were not used . complex 's 12 elevators have history of problems , with at least 13 complaints filed this year . police say chen entered us illegally and paid off $ 60,000 to smugglers .
 saatchi_&_saatchi division of publicis_groupe is shaking up its flagship new_york office , installing new leadership from without and within on both administrative and creative sides . co-chief executives mike_burns and scott_gilbert are being succeeded by single chief executive mary_baglivo . burns will remain at agency and gilbert will retire . chief creative officer tod_seisser is leaving . tony_granger from london office will take up creative duties in new_york . fran kelly will assume baglivo 's duties . chief executive kevin_roberts comments .
 november 11 arrest of hindu leader jayendra_saraswati for orchestrating murder of temple manager a sankaraman , who questioned saraswati 's policies and ethics , has set off protests by thousands of his devotees in uttar pradesh . hindu nationalists , including bharatiya_janata_party , which lost elections in may , see case as way to galvanize supporters .
 public pension funds in new_york , pennsylvania , rhode_island and iowa withdraw combined $ 2.6 billion from putnam investments in wake of accusations of improper trading in mutual funds . more than $ 4 billion has been withdrawn from putnam since accusations surfaced . treasurers of iowa and rhode_island charge that company has failed to respond adequately to charges , while other states focus on poor investment performance and excessive staffing changes . massachusetts and vermont recently withdrew investments from putnam after civil fraud charges were filed against company in massachusetts .
 sen john_kerry , campaigning in ohio , cites ballooning federal deficit in saying he will have to scale back some of domestic proposals he made during drive for democratic presidential nomination . charges pres bush misleads nation on federal spending and war in iraq . holds bush sticks to june 30 deadline for turning over sovereignty in iraq to interim government to get issue out of way by nov election , without regard to stability in iraq . bush campaign responds . pres bush , in arkansas , says he will put some new education programs in place .
 william_wachtel took over debt payments in february on 16 boats owned by arthur_imperatore 's family-owned new_york waterway ferry business in deal struck by port authority to avert midwinter shutdown of system . camaraderie between two men who are supposed to be running separate companies has sparked skepticism among boat operators who had no chance to bid against wachtel . port authority officials say nobody other than wachtel stepped forward with plan to keep serving most popular routes .
 op-ed article by geoffrey_wheatcroft on protests in manchester , eng , that american , malcolm_glazer , has bought manchester_united_soccer_club for $ 1.5 billion . says glazer has not reckoned with emotions this transaction has aroused . says club occupies honored spot in manchester , beginning life as ` works team ' and then turning professional , going on to conquer every height . says glazer shold review history of club to understand why its story has been freighted with sentiment .
 shaun t alexander pleads guilty to mutilation killing of fellow hofstra_university_sophomore_max_b_kolb , whom he lured to long_island motel room two years ago . plea comes as jury selection is about to begin . guilty plea makes him eligible for parole 30 years from date of his arrest in may 2001 .
 archaeologists , led by dr albert_j_ammerman of colgate_university , announce discovery of two ancient campsites on cyprus coast . say that sites were not used for more than several weeks each year , but are significant examples of early seafaring . hold that geology and types of tools suggest that seafarers camped at nissi_beach and aspros sites sometime between 10,000 and 9,000 bc . findings were reported at american schools of oriental research conference .
 nation 's biggest tax preparation services , jackson_hewitt and h & r block , are fighting hard for business in brief tax season before april 15 . jackson_hewitt has prepared its most aggressive advertising to date , with $ 15 million to $ 20 million campaign that uses humor intended to convey speed and expertise . its campaign is bumping up against new commercials by industry leader h & r block .
 article on gargantuan , million-dollar recording of wagner 's tristan und isolde that is being undertaken in famed studio one at emi recording studios in london . project , with antonio_pappano_directing_royal_opera_house_orchestra , placido_domingo as tristan and nina_stemme as isolde , may represent end of line for large-scale studio recordings of familiar operas .
 ikea index , created by swedish statician gabriel thulin that tracks cost of basket of 26 ikea products across 15 countries , finds us is cheapest ikea country over all , but some products in index are cheaper elsewhere . finds consumers in us pay least for ikea products , and those in finland , euro country , pay most . among euro countries in survey , people in netherlands pay least for hypothetical basket , 17 percent less than in finland .
 securities and exchange commission reportedly plans to file civil securities fraud charges against general_re_corp top executive richard_napier , who worked closely with american_international_group senior executive christian m milton on deal several years ago that artificially inflated aig accounts . aig has admitted deal was improper and dismissed milton for not cooperating with probe . former aig_head_maurice_r_greenberg allegedly personally lobbied former general re chief executive ronald_e_ferguson to handle deal .
 maj gen_john_r_s_batiste surveys operating bases of his unit , first infantry division , based in heart of restive ` sunni triangle ' in northern iraq . presides over ceremonies awarding patches for service in combat zone and gives speech about how division spearheaded invasion of omaha_beach in france exactly 60 years ago . comments on differences between the wars , interview .
 jack_curry around the majors column discusses texas_rangers short stop alex_rodriguez , who is only 2 and half years into 10-year contract with team and is saying he would not be averse to trade . florida_marlins now have legitimate chance to make clinch national league wild card spot , thanks to hiring of manager jack_mckeon and calling up pitcher dontrelle_willis .
 skype , internet calling service owned by ebay , says that as of jan 1 it will begin charging $ 30 each year for unlimited calls to landline and mobile phones within us and canada . those calls had been free since last_spring . new annual fee for unlimited calling is part of broader strategy by ebay to expand skype 's product offerings and revenue .
 michael_gansas , captain of staten_island ferry involved in fatal crash on oct_15_, 2003 , pleads not guilty to one count of making false statement as part of unusual deal that is expected to lead to dismissal of all charges if he cooperates in prosecution of ferry officials . agrees to 200 hours of community service and loss of his pilot 's license for three years .
 there is much speculation in najaf , iraq , about slaying of sheik abdel_majid_al-khoei , prominent cleric backed by washington , and haidar_al-refaei , hereditary custodian of imam ali_mosque , but truth of what happened remains mystery . some observers suggest that assassination of khoei was part of broader power struggle between clerics vying for control of najaf after saddam_hussein 's fall from power .
 annual one-month alligator hunt in louisiana , which opened on sept 14 , was delayed one week because of hurricane katrina , but that has only intensified search . trappers in southern are frantically trying to kill as many alligators as they can before cooler temperatures make it harder to find cold-blooded reptiles as they seek refuge for rest of year in warm mud banks . decision to delay hunt has reverberated in fashion capitals thousand of miles away , where buyers and designers from houses like gucci and hermes are counting on healthy bounty of alligator skins . hunt is supposed to provide , under statewide quota system , about 35,000 skins , earning hunters in state total of as much as $ 7 million a year .
 profile of new_york_city police officer daniel_rodriguez , tenor who has been studying for past year with placido_domingo at washington opera 's young artist program . rodriguez , who will make his debut with connecticut_grand_opera , gained national attention by singing national anthem and god_bless_america at numerous memorials , funerals and events after attacks on world trade center and pentagon .
 dutch financial reuglators open investigation into parmalat 's financial dealings in netherlands . parmalat used group of shell companies in netherlands to raise at least 5.2 billion euros -lrb- $ 6.64 billion -rrb- from bond investors around world . shell companies were set up under special dutch tax laws that help businesses and wealthy individuals from other countries avoid paying taxes on royalty income . parmalat has at least five subsidiaries in netherlands that exist almost entirely on paper .
 david e sanger_article holds that bush administration has sent conflicting signals about what it and its allies will do if diplomacy fails to disarm iran and north_korea . notes that india , pakistan and israel joined nuclear_club without accepting rules laid out in nuclear nonproliferation treaty . says what has been missing in washington is clear language about what world is ready to do if iran and north_korea follow path of india and pakistan .
 coast_guard and new_york_city police launch broad search of waters and small islands_around_city_island , bronx , for four teenagers believed to have set off in rowboat . little trace is found aside from guitar that one was believed to have left on shore . boys are charles_wertenbaker , andrew_melnikov , max_guarino and henry_badillo .
 ernst welteke steps down as head of bundesbank , succumbing to a scandal involving $ 9,335 hotel bill , night on corporate yacht and bad blood between government and germany 's central bankers . resignation comes little more than week after he takes leave of absence following revelations that dresdner_bank had paid for four-night stay for him and his family at luxury hotel in berlin two years ago .
 fifth article in series american dreamers : the lure of las_vegas relates graciela_diaz 's rise from illegal mexican migrant to wife , mother and middle-class homeowner who earns $ 40,000 a year as unionized waitress in luxor hotel . former seamstress , who met husband in los_angeles sweatshop , has thrived in booming economy of gambling mecca , advancing herself from busing tables by attending las_vegas_culinary_training_academy , co-sponsored by union and hotel-casino industry .
 homeland security department , which in november lowered heightened terror alert for northern new jersey , reduces funding for security measures in jersey city and newark to $ 7 million and $ 12.4 million , respectively . moves coincide with increases in federal spending for security in 50 other urban areas , including new_york_city and washington .
 christopher_wheeldon , one of world 's most sought-after choreographers who recently announced end to his residency at new_york_city_ballet , has formed his own company morphoses the wheeldon company . company will make debut in august at vail_international_dance_festival in colorado and will perform at sadler 's wells theater in london and at city_center in new_york_city . wheeldon comments .
 article on census_bureau_tract 910 , nine-square-block patch in brownsville , brooklyn , that is arguably poorest tract with any substantial population in new_york_city . area is home to about 5,600 people , whose median income is only $ 7,987 . mayor michael_bloomberg has named commission to devise plan to help city 's poor .
 westchester medical center in valhalla , ny , provokes employees and union representatives by promoting joseph_pisani to no . 2 position and raising his salary to $ 480 , oo0 a year from $ 275,000 . has been laying off many workers because of $ 70 million dollar deficit in 2003 and projected $ 45 million deficit in 2004 . says pisani 's new salary is about $ 150,000 below comparable salaries in region .
 glynn_wilson , freelance writer who earlier this year reported on george_w_bush 's activities in alabama in 1972 , files federal suit seeking $ 5 million from bush biographer kitty_kelley . suit contends that kelley plagiarized material from his article in her book , the family : the real story of the bush dynasty . excerpts .
 grand jury in texas is investigating mismanagement and corruption in wilmer-hutchins school district that serves mostly disadvantaged area outside dallas . five of district 's seven schools are in such bad shape that state report recommends tearing them down . district can not meet payroll for some teachers and staff members despite $ 500,000 loan this summer . wilmer-hutchins district police department was disbanded after chief cedric_davis complained to dallas_county district , although judge has temporarily reinstated department .
 europeans are increasingly buying japanese autos , many of them designed and engineered specifically for europe and for small and midsize segments that account for bulk of european sales . buyers are also attracted to larger japanese models . sales of japanese cars in europe jumped almost 7 percent in 2002 , to 1.64 million vehicles , while overall car sales fell 3 percent . japanese car sales grew 6 percent in 2003 first_half , while overall sales fell 2.6 percent . fresh models are behind recent japanese growth . more new models are in preparation and new japanese factories planned or under construction in several european nations . sales graph .
 military investigation finds marines killed at least 10 civilians and wounded dozens near jalalabad , afghanistan , on march 4 , with no evidence they were being fired upon . episode bears striking similarities to 2005 killings of 24 civilians in haditha , iraq , by marines . actions taken by marines suggest training that required them to respond to danger with thoughtful precision were forgotten .
 chicago city council falls short of votes needed to override mayor richard_m_daley 's veto of measure to impose minimum wage regulations on large retail stores , including wal-mart , target and home depot . three aldermen who supported measure reverse their votes . ordinance would have required large retail stores to pay $ 10 an hour by 2010 , along with $ 3 an hour in benefits . national chains fought wage bill through combination of threats and behind-the-scene lobbying .
 four suicide bomb attacks strike iraqi police and iraqi_army base in mosul . 16-hour wave of insurgent violence kills 38 people and wounds scores more . american commander sees recent trend of insurgent attacks intensely focused on iraqi security forces . defense sec donald h rumsfeld and gen_john_p_abizaid_suggest_insurgency could last dozen years , and that iraq would become more violent before elections later this year . abizaid 's remark last week that insurgency was undiminished seemingly countered remark by vice pres dick_cheney that insurgency was in its ` last throes ' . polls show support for war is dropping . pres bush is expected to use upcoming speech at fort_bragg to press his case for large continued military presence in iraq and explain why administration 's strategy will eventually work .
 independent budget office analysis , first factoring in state taxes , finds that new_york_city 's tax burden is far above those of the eight other american cities with populations over one million . says local and state taxes in new_york_city swallow $ 9.02 out of every $ 100 in household and business income , compared with average of $ 6.16 for eight other cities . attributes much of disparity between new_york and other cities to exceptionally high costs new yorkers bear for medicaid .
 mci accepts sweetened takeover offer of about $ 7.6 billion from verizon_communications , spurning rival bid of $ 8.45 billion from qwest_communications_international . qwest declines to say whether it will raise its own offer , which it has already bumped up twice . qwest 's bid is still favored by some mci shareholders , who have already filed lawsuits hoping to force mci 's board to accept higher offer .
 bush administration says that it had been more difficult than anticipated to fulfill agreement to return $ 25 million in frozen bank funds to north_korea and that top treasury official , daniel_glaser , will fly to china to help free money . north_korea is demanding return of money before it resumes negotiations over dismantling its nuclear arms program .
 medieval monastic building known as chapter house that was bought , dismantled and shipped from spain to california in 1930 's by william_randolph_hearst will be reassembled for use by monks of new_clairvaux_abbey in vina , calif . great depression prevented hearst from completing project , and so stones lay unused in san_francisco 's golden gate park for fifty years before finally being transferred to new clairveaux . building is around two years away from completion , providing enough money can be raised to finish project .
 article on cost of defending dennis_alvarez_hernandez , honduran immigrant convicted of killing his girlfriend and two of her children in yonkers , ny . case was first capital punishment case in westchester_county since new_york reinstated death penalty in 1995 . lead defense lawyer robert_aiello says state spent at least $ 1 million in defending hernandez . westchester district atty jeanine_pirro says much less was spent in prosecuting case .
 new_york gov george e pataki and developer larry_a_silverstein move closer to agreement on rebuilding at world trade center site . proposal would free silverstein from building freedom tower , give him rent reduction and he would retain right to develop three office towers . board of port authority of new_york and new jersey is to consider agreement , though several major issues remain unresolved .
 new_york_state_legislature , after years of false starts , votes to reduce steep mandatory minimum sentences for drug crimes , so-called rockefeller drug laws that put some low-level first-time offenders behind bars for up to 15 years or life . those sentences would now range from 8 to 20 years and more than 400 inmates will be allowed to apply for early release . chart . gov george_pataki 's signature expected . legislature breaks second logjam by authorizing expansion of jacob_k_javits_convention_center on manhattan 's west side . republican senate wins provision calling for $ 350 million to be spent on projects outside city . assembly democrats make sure bill is neutral on building new_york jets stadium on site . some inmate advocates complain sentencing measure does not go far enough , although hip-hop mogul russell_simmons praises bill .
 barr_mcclellan , an author , and carole_keeton_strayhorn , comptroller of texas , are parents of food and drug adm_comr_mark_b_mcclellan_and_white_house_press secretary scott_mcclellan . mcclellan_brothers refuse to comment on father 's upcoming book , which asserts that lyndon_b_johnson engineered murder of john_f_kennedy .
 article on french art curator marc_restellini , who has opened first public display of works inherited by pablo_picasso 's second wife , jacqueline_roque , at pinacotheque de paris , his private museum in paris . restellini hopes show will be first stage in strategy to draw crowds to popular art shows in his museums in tokyo , new_york and other major cities .
 opec delegates say group plans to allow its members to provide up to two million barrels a day of additional crude oil if market needs it . oil traders discount move and send oil prices higher on concerns about another possible hurricane . royal dutch shell , chevron and other oil companies say are are evacuating some employees from offshore oil platforms in anticipation of tropical storm rita . oil price closes at $ 67.39 a barrel , up $ 4.39 , in new_york on latest hurricane warnings . natural gas futures hit record , closing at $ 12.663 per thousand cubic fee , up $ 1.519 . opec 's highly unusual decision to put on call extra 7 percent of its production is expected to be formally announced sept 20 at end of group 's two-day meeting in vienna .
 clinton_county , new_york , judge_timothy_j_lawliss rejects motion for new trial for david_wong , chinese immigrant convicted of killing fellow inmate tyrone_julius at clinton correctional facility in 1986 . wong activists , reporting by the new_york_times and private investigator have pointed to third inmate , nelson_gutierrez , who has since died .
 arts briefing column : renaudot prize for nonfiction is won by french author yves_berger . berger describes his essay , dictionnaire amoreaux de l ' amerique , as love song to america . sinead_o'connor , who is expecting her third child , says her new two-cd album is her last . tony award-winning urinetown , facing eviction , will close on january 18 after 25 previews and 965 performances .
 new_york_city 's financial institutions have struggled since sept 11 with question of how to guarantee continuity in case of terrorist attack or other catastrophe . notion of dispersion , or locating backup operation far enough away to be safe , may hurt manhattan 's commercial real estate market but is widely seen as benefiting other real estate markets within metropolitan region . new_york_mercantile_exchange has trading floor on long_island . securities industry assn reports that 27 of 59 large institutions have backup data centers more than 30 miles from their primary sites and 20 have relocation offices . details of several companies ' contingency sites discussed .
 pres bush designates six captives suspected of terrorism as eligible for trial by us military tribunals , first step in procedures he laid out after sept 11 attacks . tribunals would be held in specially built courtroom at guantanamo_naval_base . deputy sec paul_wolfowitz has been designated by sec donald_rumsfeld to decide specific charges and name tribunal members . photo . six reportedly have al qaeda ties of some sort .
 norman_adami , sabmiller chief executive , has overseen miller lite 's comeback since south african breweries acquired miller_brewing_co from philip_morris in may 2002 . miller lite 's turnaround also owes something to tactical misstep by anheuser-busch , which took lead by heavily promoting its low-carb michelob_ultra_brand , giving miller opening for new ad campaign comparing carbohydrate content of miller lite with bud light , coors light and michelob light , which are all higher .
 john_kerry says he does not remember attending 1971 meeting of vietnam veterans against war where assassination of senators was discussed . says he knew nothing of attempts by his campaign to tinker with past and that he disapproves . is accentuating his five months in combat in vietnam , but he rarely emphasizes his two years working against war . recently appeared on meet the press and disavowed his own remarks on program in april 1971 , when he said he and thousands of other soldiers had committed atrocities .
 article on dan_king , 55 , one of last full-time baymen in east_hampton , ny , who , unable to afford to keep fishing inshore waters , is moving with his wife , marsha , and mother-in-law , sarah_wethy , to north_carolina . king , who captained one of east_hampton 's six haul-seining crews in 1970 's and 1980 's and served as east_hampton_baymen 's assn president for 20 years until 2003 , has donated his american flag-painted dory to east_hampton town marine museum .
 jesse_mckinley column reports on heavy load of revivals set for spring theater season in new_york , possible casting of ashley_judd in broadway revival of cat on a hot tin roof , coming new_york appearances by lynn_redgrave and vanessa_redgrave , and jason_petty 's performance in lost highway , musical about hank_williams .
 lawyers for martha_stewart say they will conclude their defense in her trial without testimony from stewart . closing arguments in case could begin as early as feb 26 . defense witness heidi_deluca , business manager for martha_stewart living omnimedia , is undermined by prosecutors . asst dist atty michael_schachter makes case that deluca was at best confused about stewart 's prearranged sale agreement for her imclone_systems shares and at worst was motivated by greed in testifying on her boss 's behalf .
 philip d zelikow , director of sept 11 commission , becomes witness in inquiry , interviewed by own staff about his role in shaping bush administration 's early counterterrorism strategy , when he was on pre-inauguration national security policy team . photo . zelikow was on national_security_council in first bush administration and was close associate of national security adviser condoleezza_rice . commission member jamie_gorelick is interviewed about her role in terrorism policy as top official in clinton_justice_department .
 german chancellor angela_merkel 's tense exchanges with pres vladimir_v_putin of russia over human rights and other contentious issues at europe-russia summit meeting underscore how much has changed , at least in tone , between germany and russia since she succeeded gerhard_schroder . merkel scolded putin for barring protesters from talks in russian city of samara , prompting fosty reply from putin . hiccups between russia and germany dominate political debate in germany , in part because they lay bare split in governing grand coalition between merkel 's christian democrats and schroder 's social democrats about how to handle russia .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg promises no cuts in fiscal 2005 budget , but new_york_city_council says budget contains $ 220 million in hidden cuts . budget watchers say money was never there in first place because in 2003 bloomberg initially proposed cutting $ 600 million from fiscal 2004 budget , then restored about a third of it , but only for fiscal 2004 . now bloomberg is using baseline from old spending levels submitted prior to restorations for 2004 budget . compared with those levels , 2005 budget has no cuts .
 american marines begin fight for region south of baghdad , an area thick with saddam_hussein loyalists , angry sunnis and rebels fleeing us offensive in falluja . region has seen 350 separate attacks , including 12 car bombs and nearly 80 roadside bombs in last month . intelligence officers have developed chart of hundreds of names of rebel leaders , financiers and fighters in region . objective is to hurt rebels enough that elections can go forward .
 federal communications commission levels record $ 3.6 million fine against 11 television stations that broadcasted episode of cbs_program without a trace , saying show suggested teenage characters were participating in sexual orgy . program was among nine cited for fines totaling about $ 4 million for allegedly violating decency standards between february 2002 and march 2005 .
 women 's shooting sports league gathers once a month at westside rifle range in manhattan to practice marksmanship , learn how to handle firearms safely and overcome fear of guns . amy_heath , founder , says that if women in america 's heartland can shoot well , so to should women in new_york . league has core of 15 to 20 members and is steadily growing in city where obtaining recreational license can take upward of 18 months . one woman , a liberal democrat and constitutional lawyer , complains that applying for license was more intrusive than applying for state_bar_association .
 government accountability office report shows federal government is paying hundreds of millions of dollars in unnecessary subsidies to student loan companies even though bush administration has authority to cut them off immediately . student loans companies for last two years have been taking advantage of loophole in federal law to receive big subsidies that congress tried to retire more than decade ago . as lenders have stepped up practice , billing government for more than three times as much as they did three years ago , education department has maintained that there is little it can do to stop them soon . subsidies could cost government nearly $ 1 billion that many lawmakers should go directly to students .
 fbi comes under withering criticism from commission investigating sept 11 attacks . thomas_h_kean , commission chairman , declares that agency does not work and that he does not know how to fix it . commission releases pair of interim reports that offer extensive and agonizing new details about how fbi and cia may have bungled opportunities to thwart sept 11 attacks . kean says he welcomes pres bush 's comments that white_house will consider overhaul of nation 's intelligence agencies , including fbi . kean 's criticisms of bureau are echoed by others on commission and come as panel conducts sometimes harsh questioning of louis j freeh , fbi director from 1993 until he retired three_months_before_sept_11 attacks , thomas_j_pickard , who was bureau 's acting director during summer_of 2001 , atty gen john_ashcroft and his predecessor , janet_reno .
 intel shares increase by as much as 10 percent following upward revision in third_quarter sales projections by about 5 percent . forecast is seen as additional evidence of pickup in economic growth . company is projecting third_quarter sales in range of $ 7.3 billion to $ 7.8 billion , up from $ 6.9 billion to $ 7.5 billion , and gross margin of about 56 percent , up from earlier estimate of 54 percent . chief executive andy d bryant comments .
 suspension of star as co-host of hot 97 's top-rated morning radio show among listeners 18 to 34 appears to be permanent . star -lrb- troi_torain -rrb- had increasingly strained relations with barry_mayo , executive of emmis_communications , owner of hot 97 -lrb- wqht-tv -rrb- . is exploring noncompete clause in his contract that bars him from seeking employment at rival station until 2005 . star 's departure creates opportunity for clear channel communications to lift audience for its hip-hop station , power 105 .
 cbs_radio and xm satellite radio announce return of radio hosts opie and anthony to cbs_stations in seven major markets . team will broadcast for three hours on cbs_radio on weekday mornings , abiding by federal decency standards , and then will switch to xm satellite radio for additional two hours where they can speak uncensored .
 new_york_city will start farming east_river for electricity by installing six giant turbines six feet below surface . tidal turbines are expected to generate 150 kilowatts each . verdant power hopes to have 200 to 300 such turbines in river by 2006 , producing enough electricity o power 8,000 homes . energy from turbines will costs about 2 cents per kilowatt hour more than market price for electricity . company says price should recede as customers sign up and fuel cells become available to help store energy during slack tide periods .
 republican officials at state and national level , facing sen joseph_i_lieberman 's independent candidacy in connecticut , have made unusual decision to abandon their candidate , alan_schlesinger , and some are actively working to help lieberman win in nov . reps christopher_shays , rob_simmons and nancy_johnson -- republicans running for re-election -- have praised lieberman , who is strong supporter of pres bush on iraq war . newt gingrich , former house speaker , has endorsed lieberman . schlesinger , former mayor of derby , has registered polling numbers so low they are breaking records . his photo .
 european central bank leaves benchmark short-term interest rate unchanged at 2 percent , despite announcing higher growth and inflation forecasts for europe than it had in june . bank president jean-claude_trichet says he expects recovery , which has been driven by exports , to spread to domestic spending , in part because of interest rates . german labor office says number of jobless people rose by 24,000 in august , to 4.41 million . new german surveys show faltering confidence among consumers and businesspeople .
 six letters comment on andrew_l_haas july 17 op-ed article advocating periodic testing of elderly drivers . robert_gelman , d conde , harry e berndt and sharon_bohen_riley agree with haas . walter_waldman says need for tests should be based on individual 's driving record regardless of age . jerome_greenberg vents his frustration at bicycle riders .
 treasury department orders major airlines to turn over records of their dealings in 2002 and 2003 with air_transportation_stabilization_board . five airlines confirm they received subpoenas on march 12 from department 's inspector general jeffrey_rush jr directing them to provide their records of dealings with daniel_g_montgomery , former executive director of board . montgomery says he has no knowledge of subpoenas and declines to comment further .
 nato reinforcements begin arriving in kosovo as peacekeepers struggle to stem wave of violence between ethnic albanians and serbs . additional 1,000 troops will bring overall nato_force to 19,000 . united nations officials say at least 31 people have been killed and hundreds injured in past two days , most of them serbs .
 hurricane rita reaches category 5 , strongest storm designation , as it barrels toward texas coastline , forcing evacuation of as many as million people from island_city_of_galveston and other gulf_coast_communities . buses , ambulances and helicopters used to evacuate hospitals and nursing homes . forecasts say rita will pass over cooler waters on sept 22 and 23 , potentially weakening it to category 4 storm before it makes landfall , which is predicted for early on sept 24 north of matagorda_bay . approaching storm provoked feari n houston and along broad swath of texas coast .
 bush administration is replacing lawrence a greenfeld as director of bureau_of_justice_statistics following his complaint that senior political officials at justice_department played down data on aggressive police treatment of black and hispanic drivers . demotion caps more than three years of simmering tension over alleged political interference at agency and compromising of key law enforcement analysis . greenfeld , veteran statistician and supervisor , was named by pres_bush to head low-profile agency that produces numerous reports on law enforcement issues and strives to avoid political taint . greenfeld reportedly was ordered to delete references to disparities in how racial groups are treated after police stops . greenfeld refused and justice_department opted for online posting without news release or briefing to congress . study found about 9 percent of all drivers were stopped nationwide in 2002 but that 11.4 percent of hispanics and 10.2 percent of blacks were searched or had vehicles searched , compared with 3.5 percent of white drivers .
 house passes medicare reform bill , 216 to 215 , that would help elderly buy prescription drugs and senate , in 76 to 21 vote , passes another version . congressional leaders rejoice over passage , but say it may take weeks , perhaps months , to iron out compromise complicated by extremely close house vote . pres bush praises action on one of his top domestic priorities . provisions of two bills compared .
 biographical profile of condoleeza_rice , national security adviser nominated to be secretary of state in pres bush 's second term . photo . presidential confidante is russia specialist schooled in cold war who was transformed by sept 11 terrorist attacks and evolved , along with bush , into hard-liner , although she is likely to spend much of her time mending relations with us allies . was born in 1954 and grew up in segregation of birmingham , alabama .
 special inspector general for iraq reconstruction report says $ 243 million program led by us_army_corps_of_engineers to build 150 health clinics in iraq will manage to build only 20 clinics without new financing . report cites disputes among iraqi construction companies and problems with local materials among problems . prime contractor parsons comes under heavy criticism , but main finding is lax oversight by army_corps .
 marine lance_cpl_lance_hering has been missing since he went hiking with friend , steve_powers , in eldorado canyon state park near boulder , colo , on aug 29 . five-day search for hering used helicopters , dogs and hundreds of volunteers before it was called off . powers has confessed that hering 's disappearance was hoax to help him avoid returning to iraq .
 assemblyman herman_d_farrell jr of new_york questions plans for holding party in south_boston during democratic national convention , citing area 's resistance to school desegregation in 1970 's . boston_newspapers and city councilman james_m_kelly_call_farrell racial agitator . many bostonians believe incidents in 1970 's were not racist , but frustration at having their children bused to school outside neighborhood . democrats hoped to play down differences on civil rights to show party 's united_front : photo .
 independent board investigating february 1 disintegration of space shuttle columbia in earth 's atmosphere killing all seven astronauts on board releases names of 21 experts assisting in its work . they are drawn from active and retired personnel from military , national_transportation_safety_board , federal_aviation_administration , naval nuclear propulsion program and other government agencies .
 investors wonder whether wachovia is finally poised to undertake a big acquisition . one analyst notes that wachovia could add to its mortgage business or go after regional bank or small insurance brokerage . chief executive ken_thompson has signaled to wall street in recent months his interest in getting into credit card business or extending wachovia 's reach in texas or northeast . several analysts say it makes sense for wachovia to acquire credit card issuer to fill gaping hole in bank 's product line .
 sen robert_menendez , democrat , and state sen thomas_h_kean jr , republican , candidates for us_senate in new jersey , define their views in one-hour debate that is fractious and raw . kean says menendez is political boss without moral compass . menendez says kean is partisan republican who supports policies and is beholden to fund-raising machine of pres bush .
 ibm reports quarterly profits that surpass wall street estimates at time when much of recent news from computer hardware and software companies has been of surprisingly bad earnings , rising inventories and uncertain prospects . says profit was nearly $ 1.99 billion , up 17 percent from year earlier . revenue in quarter rose 7 percent , to $ 23.2 billion . chief financial officer mark loughridge comments .
 still-classified section of joint report by house and senate intelligence committees reportedly says senior saudi_arabian officials have funneled hundreds of millions of dollars to charitable groups and other organizations that may have helped finance sept 11 terrorist attacks . section , which focuses on role played by foreign governments , reportedly centers almost entirely on saudi_arabia . some members of congress resent bush administration 's refusal to let committees disclose chapter 's contents , holding desire to protect ruling saudi family prevents american public from learning key facts about attacks .
 atty gen eliot spitzer and new_york insurance superintendent sue american_international_group and its former top officers , maurice_r_greenberg and howard_i_smith , accusing them of manipulating financial statements and misleading regulators and investors . contend transactions allowed aig to cover up problems like faltering reserves and underwriting losses in dealings from taiwan to brazil . accuse greenberg , smith and another aig executive , joseph_h_umansky , of creating number of offshore reinsurance companies to hide underwriting losses in its auto warranty and brazilian life insurance businesses . analysts say aig will seek to move quickly to settle with new_york regulators . company is still being investigated by securities_and_exchange_commission and justice_department .
 virtually everyone in iraq has something at stake in american presidential election , from iraqi contractors and day laborers who work for american military , to parents who want to send their children safely to school each day , to mujahedeen . poll of 2,000 people by iraq_center_for_research and strategic studies shows iraqis who have opinion on two candidates are evenly divided . poll also shows that number of people have shifted their allegiance from pres bush , saying they were euphoric at fall of saddam hussein but dismayed about aftermath , as streets of baghdad became deadlier by the week . say american-led conflict in iraq was mismanaged .
 sen jon_corzine and doug_forrester have spent tens of millions of dollars promoting themselves for governor and attacking each other , but new_jersey_voters_express little confidence that either can solve problems of soaring property taxes and government corruption . voters responding to new_york_times_poll_express disgust at caustic tone of campaign and expect insiders will continue to have undue influence no matter who wins . corzine leads forrester , 46 to 37 percent among likely voters , but 14 percent are undecided .
 texas_pacific_group , blackstone_group , kohlberg_kravis_roberts_and_hellman_&_friedman , which purchased houston_'s_electric_utility_texas_genco for $ 900 million in 2004 , are selling company to nrg energy for gain of $ 5 billion . deal causes jaws to drop in houston 's energy circles and angers and perplexes people who are feeling sting of surging electricity prices -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 pres bush names ed_gillespie chairman of republican_national_committee through 2004 elections . biographical details . photo . veteran party official and strategist says he will be full-time chairman for term but retain stake in lobbying firm quinn_gillespie_&_associates , where partner jack_quinn has served as pres clinton 's white_house counsel and vice pres gore 's chief of staff . gillespie succeeds marc_racicot , who will be chairman of bush-cheney re-election committee .
 jury in michael_jackson 's child molestation trial in california sees videotaped interviews in which jackson describes his ` pure ' love of children and says he has been unfairly accused of molestating boys and is ` peter_pan in my heart ' . outtakes are from 2002 and 2003 interviews with british journalist martin_bashir . actor macaulay culkin testifies that he shared bed with jackson numerous times as a child but was never touched inappropriately .
 streetscapes article on unusual trove of correspondence from architect william_burnet_tuthill to his client james_hooker_hamersley about mansion they designed in 1899 on northeast_corner_of fifth ave and 84th st . letters describe problems and disputes between two men . building was demolished in 1924 for present 1030 fifth ave apartment building .
 michael_kimmelman critic 's notebook column on tour , taken with former program director tom_finkelpearl , of some projects completed by new_york_city 's percent for art program , which is celebrating its 20th anniversary . center for architecture is holding exhibition coinciding with publication of new book , city art , edited by marvin_heiferman with essays by adam_gopnik and eleanor_heartney . photos . list .
 new_york_city police officials say more than 200 crimes reported last year in chelsea and on western edge of manhattan , mostly thefts and robberies , were improperly downgraded in police statistics to misdemeanors , making area seem safer on paper than it really was . police statistics show 10th precinct recorded 811 serious crimes at end of 2002 because reported crimes were wrongly downgraded , compared with 876 in 2001 , for 7.42 percent drop . show overall crime in precinct is up 44.7 percent so far this year , with robberies up 22.2 percent and grand larcenies up 86.2 percent .
 russian pres vladimir v putin says united_states faces possibility of prolonged and ultimately futile war in iraq , comparing it to one that mired soviet_union in afghanistan , interview . warns that iraq has become magnet for terrorists . says bush administration must move quickly to restore sovereignty to iraqis and to secure united_nations resolution that would clearly define how long international forces remain there . says russia is prepared to offer partial relief on $ 8 billion it is owed by iraq , but only in coordination with other major creditor nations . characterizes russia 's relations with united_states , and his own with pres_bush , as close and frank , in wide-ranging discussion in which he defends state of democracy in russia , its actions in chechnya , and its role in construction of nuclear reactor in iran .
 article on southern_california trials of actor robert_blake , singer michael_jackson and music producer phil_spector . blake says he did not kill his wife bonnie_lee_bakley , but few people seem to care . his moment in sun has been eclipsed by jackson , whose trial on charges of child molesting is to begin in santa_barbara_county with jury selection . media representatives from around world are converging on courthouse . spector was vaulted into limelight when he was charged with murdering actress lana_clarkson in 2003 . spector at first told police shooting was accident , but he now says clarkson shot herself .
 canadian_supreme_court will hear case on rights for autistic persons to receive healthcare benefits under charter of rights and freedoms , canada 's bill of rights . beverley_sharpe , mother of autistic daughter allison , has spearheaded efforts to make government responsible for helping autistics in same way cancer patients are entitled to full treatment for illness . officials estimate that if all 13,000 special needs children in british columbia were entitled to benefits that it would cost province as much as $ 1.5 billion and would require reworking of system . more than 20 lawsuits have been filed in canada regarding rights for children with special needs .
 analysis of white_house 's apparently calm reaction to discovery that north_korea may have supplied uranium to libya . says pres bush emphasizes patience , and does not refer to intelligence estimates that north_korea has at least two nuclear weapons , or to debate within american intelligence community about whether north_korea has spent past 18 months building more . says even hawks within administration see no major risk that north_korea will lash out at its neighbors or us . many in administration think kim_jong_il is rooting for bush 's defeat in nov , hoping to face more willing negotiating partner in john_kerry .
 bill and hillary_clinton visit white_house for unveiling of their official portraits , along with many clinton administration veterans who form john_kerry 's brain trust in this year 's presidential race . photo . politics takes brief holiday for exchange of warm , gracious remarks all around and lunch given by laura_bush . photo . pres bush praises predecessor he nicknames ` 42 ' .
 brooklyn 's democratic party gathers in diner to select candidates for state_supreme_court in more open fashion than in past . some complain that proceedings are still controlled by clarence_norman , party chairman , and say minorities and women are still underrepresented . nominees for five open seats are bruce m balter , arthur_m_schack , martin_m_solomon , bernadette_p_bayne and raymond_guzman .
 state department 's bureau_of_intelligence_and_research is apparently disputing central intelligence agency conclusion that mysterious trailers found in iraq were for making biological weapons . government officials report june 2 classified memorandum in which bureau told sec_colin_powell that it was premature to conclude that trailers were evidence of such weapons . disclosure of memorandum is seen as clearest sign yet of disagreement between intelliegence agencies over assertion jointly made public by cia and defense_intelligence_agency on may 28 . report on trailers was initially prepared for white_house , and pres bush has cited it as proof of iraqi biological weapons program .
 congress , eager to adjourn for holidays , extends usa patriot act by five weeks after house_judiciary_comm chairman f james_sensenbrenner jr balks at longer extension . deal is approved by voice vote in sparsely attended sessions in house and senate . it averts dec 31 expiration of 16 major provisions of original law . it is final twist in six-day game of brinksmanship between pres bush , who wants original bill to be made permanent , and senate democrats who blocked that effort and agreed to six-month extension of bill with help of handful of republicans . sensenbrenner threatened to derail six-month extension , agreeing to sign off on five-week extension only after white_house officials intervene . extension sets stage for clash over civil liberties and national security when lawmakers return early next year .
 how royal ahold_nv inflated profits by about $ 500 million , primarily in its us_foodservice unit , in 2001 and 2002 is unclear . errors in forecasts would not seem to call for action taken by company -- resignation of chief executive cees_van_der_hoeven and chief financial officer michael_meurs -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 american military officials say they have provided pres bush with options for attack against iraq that could begin within days and without using turkey as staging area for troops in north . gen tommy_r_franks meets at white_house to discuss war plans with bush and his top national security advisers . defense sec donald h rumsfeld and franks say bush has made no decision on whether to order attack .
 senior clinton administration officials plan to tell independent commission investigating sept 11 attacks how they repeatedly warned bush administration in late 2000 that al qaeda posed worst security threat facing nation -- and how new administration was slow to act . say warnings were delivered in urgent post-election intelligence briefings in dec 2000 and jan 2001 for condoleezza_rice , stephen_hadley and philip d zelikow . hadley is rice 's deputy and zelikow was member of bush transition team . he is executive director of bipartisan panel . zelikow and commission chmn thomas_h_kean photo .
 harvey_araton sports of the times column on need for universities to develop new standards of commitment for athletic coaches . cites kent_state_university basketball coach stan_heath , who left after one season because of $ 800,000-a - year offer from university_of_arkansas . kent state athletic director laing kennedy says most standard contracts , in addition to buyout clauses , state that university ` will not unreasonably withhold permission ' from negotiating with another university .
 bob_woodward , in new book plan of attack , contends that two months before invasion of iraq , sec_of_state_colin_powell warned pres bush about potential negative consequences of war , citing what powell called ` you break it , you own it ' rule of military action . holds that powell clashed in particular with vice pres dick_cheney , whom woodward describes as ` powerful , steamrolling force ' advocating war . asserts that cheney was preoccupied with reports of links between saddam_hussein and al qaeda terrorist network . maintains that powell believed that cheney misread and exaggerated intelligence about iraq threat and supposed terrorist ties .
 profile of and interview with zelda_kaplan , 87 , perhaps new_york 's oldest and most beloved night owl . kaplan , wearing trademark ensemble of matching african-print dress , handbag , shoes and tall hat , makes party circuit several evenings a week . her name is zelda , documentary about kaplan , will be shown at screening room as part of hbo 's frame by frame festival .
 gov james e mcgreevey 's budget for new jersey 's fiscal 2005 is criticized for relying too heavily on $ 150 million in new fees and taxes and borrowing against money expected to come from cigarette tax and higher fines for driving infractions . mcgreevey says that $ 150 million environmental impact fee on petrochemical companies is not stealth tax on gasoline , but on polluters .
 deputy secretary of state robert_b_zoellick will head for sudan next week to press its leaders to end violence in darfur . en route , he will represent united_states at donors ' conference for sudan in oslo , norway , committing united_states to provide $ 1.4 billion in aid for reconstruction in southern sudan , where long-term conflict recently ended .
 january has been bearish month for investors despite two-day rally . investors are withdrawing money from domestic stock funds and pouring money into international funds . dow jones industrial average rises 37.03 points , or 0.4 percent , to 10,498.59 , while standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index climbs 5.66 points , or 0.5 percent , to 1,174.07 . nasdaq composite index gains 26.14 points , or 1.3 percent , to 2,046.09 .
 amtrak takes its acela_express trains out of service after government inspector looking under a train following speed experiment notices cracks in brakes , and check finds hundreds of similar flaws on other trains . discovery of widespread fissures in brake discs disrupts travel plans of over 10,000 people who ride trains every weekday along northeast corridor between boston , new_york and washington . it is second time since train was introduced in dec 2000 that all 20 trains had to be sidelined because of cracks in undercarriage . diagram .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry descend on topeka , kan , to commemorate anniversary of supreme_court ruling that ended school segregation 50 years ago . their remarks about case come in two separate if unequal events . with flourishes of presidential visit , bush marks opening of brown v board of education national historic site at one of four all-black schools in city that were at center of ruling . tells mostly white audience that habits of racial discrimination still exist and must be fought . across town , kerry attends ceremony organized by democratic gov kathleen_sebelius . he receives his loudest applause when he assails bush administration for failing to finance its signature education law known as no child left behind .
 literacy partners_inc says 20 percent of population of us can not read or write english proficiently . says more than one million adults in new_york_city who are so lacking in skills that they can not fill out application forms or read basic contracts . holds there are also hundreds of thousands who are underemployed and tens of thousands who are hiding their lack of basic skills from employer .
 draft of rand_corp study for panel investigating columbia_space_shuttle disaster warns that nasa is likely to lose more shuttles before fleet reaches anticipated retirement date of 2020 . study by dr jean_gebman , expert on aircraft aging , cites corrosion and metal fatigue and general level of reliability , saying nasa has never performed fatigue testing on wings and has deferred corrosion inspections . dr michael_a_greenfield of nasa defends work .
 oakland_international_airport and san_francisco_international_airport are competing for passengers . southwest and jetblue , nation 's most profitable airlines , operate out of oakland , not san_francisco . oakland 's airport has lower fees and better weather , and population is growing faster on east side of bay . influx of low-cost air service has meant that number of passengers has been rising even as it has dropped at san_francisco . san_francisco is fighting back , driving hard to woo airlines , especially low-cost carriers . mayor willie_brown is courting airline executives , and airport is cutting landing fees by half on new routes . efforts seem to be paying off , for american_trans_air is starting its first transcontinental service -- nonstop flights between san_francisco and new_york area -- on oct 26 , and couple of other low-cost airlines also plan to fly new cross-country routes within months .
 op-ed article by sens_charles_schumer , new_york democrat , and lindsey_o_graham , south_carolina republican , expresses dismay at china 's failure to play fair on free trade . notes they have introduced legislation to impose tariff on chinese exports to united_states if beijing continues to keep value of its currency artificially low compared with dollar . argues that pushing china to reform is not protectionist position , but rather free trade position .
 article on samuel_h_gottscho , former traveling salesman who turned to professional photography at age 50 . gottscho 's pictures of new_york_city architecture and interiors , dating from 1925 to 1940 , are subject of new exhibit at museum of the city of new_york , which has one of largest archives of his work .
 report by congressional_research_service says arab countries have used oil revenues to make investments in united_states ' real estate , oil refining , computer and financial_services_industries . saudi_arabia 's prince walib bin talal is most prominent investor from region who became one of citigroup 's largest shareholders with 3.9 percent stake . investors from dubai have made largest investments in recent months .
 rauch_foundation 's long_island , ny , poll finds 33 percent of long islanders earning over $ 60,000 report increasing income and only 15 percent say their income has fallen , while 45 percent of families earning $ 20,000 to $ 60,000 are feeling economic squeeze and more are losing economic ground than gaining . finds pervasive economic jitters among all income classes . prof irwin l kellner says concerns are misplaced , holding area 's economy is stronger than rest of nation .
 article on young people 's chorus of new_york_city , founded by francisco_nunez in 1988 , whose members are rehearsing for reopening ceremony of statue of liberty , which has been closed to public since 9/11 . group , resident choir of 92nd street y , has grown in 15 years from small group of diverse and musically untrained children in fledgling after-school program to skilled award-winning ensemble of some 250 choristers ranging in age from 12 to 18 .
 crews from new_york_state_health_department , nassau_county_health_department and us_agriculture_department distribute more than 20,000 baits containing rabies vaccine by truck and helicopter over wide swath of northern and east-central nassau_county after six rabid raccoons are reported in one week . teams trap and hand-vaccinate nearly 400 raccoons within mile of initial case , in brookville , in effort to contain virus .
 arts briefing column . columbus_citizens_foundation and president lawrence_auriana join other italian-american organizations in objecting to what they call negative stereotyping in forthcoming dreamworks computer-animated feature film shark tale . auriana accuses steven_spielberg , one of founders of dreamworks , of hypocrisy . dreamworks spokesman andy_spahn defends film and says spielberg had no role in film . capitol records reportedly plans to release two new john_lennon cd 's on november 2 .
 tyco_international 's former chief executive l dennis_kozlowski walks into new_york_state_supreme_court wearing tan and defiant face for first day of jury selection in his legal battle against charges that he looted tyco_internationl and investors of $ 600 million . kozlowski is on trial with former chief financial officer mark h swartz .
 joseph_p_nacchio , former chief executive of qwest_communications_international , is indicted on charges of insider trading involving stock sales worth more $ 100 million . allegedly sold more than 2.5 million shares of qwest stock in first_half_of 2001 , knowing that company was in danger of missing its financial targets . nacchio photo .
 wb show smallville experiences ratings resurgence , winning no 1 spot among men 18 to 34 , one of most difficult demograhics , for thursday night 8 pm time slot . show will return for sixth season in september on cw network , created by merger between wb and upn . executives for cw call smallville one of their most important shows .
 major british report finds extensive failures in intelligence gathering on illicit weapons and government 's use of that intelligence to justify iraqi war . report , written by lord_butler , clears prime min tony_blair of accusations that he or his government distorted evidence to build case for war . like findings by united_states_senate_committee last week , british report finds no evidence that saddam_hussein had significant , if any , stocks of chemical or biological weapons before war or that iraq cooperated with al_qaeda . but senate report passed withering verdict on cia , while butler 's report specifically exonerates john_scarlett , one of britain 's top spymasters . other differences between senate and british reports noted .
 feud between new_york republican gubernatorial hopeful william f weld and alfonse m d ' amato dates to 1996 . weld claims d ' amato gave him $ 750,000 for his massachusetts senatorial campaign against john_kerry and told weld to distance himself from robert_s_mueller_iii , who oversaw federal fraud investigation of d ' amato 's brother armand in early 1990 's . d ' amato denies encounter took place , saying he met weld recently . newspaper accounts indicate that d ' amato introduced weld at 1996 fund-raiser in washington . d ' amato has been praising democratic gubernatorial front-runner eliot spitzer .
 us airways and its pilots ' union reach tentative deal on $ 300 million in annual wage and benefit cuts . deal , which is worth $ 1.8 billion over next six years , includes annual pay cuts of 18 percent . also reduces company 's contribution to pilots ' retirement benefits , and require pilots to fly more hours a month for same pay . chief executive bruce r lakefield calls deal ` major step forward ' .
 four young women have died in less than two months in widely publicized cases of anorexia in brazil , causing national debate about body image and eating disorders . first death was that of ana_carolina_reston , model who stood 5 feet 8 inches tall but weighed just over 80 pounds . her photo .
 richard m scrushy , ousted founder of healthsouth_corp has been attending predominantly black guiding light church in birmingham , ala , not long before his indictment in 2003 on charges of overseeing $ 2.7 billion conspiracy to defraud shareholders of healthsouth . scrushy 's new emphasis on his ties to birmingham 's large black population and his churchgoing ways have many people asking if it is all part of his defense strategy . about 70 percent of birmingham is african-american , and of 18 jurors and alternates at hi8s trial , 11 are african-american . danger is scrushy 's very public moves could backfire , especially considering that inside courtroom his lawyers are following different , and decidely uncharitable strategy .
 naacp leaders attack democratic presidential aspirants joseph_lieberman , richard_gephardt and dennis_kucinich for not appearing at annual convention in miami_beach . six other contenders appear on stage with empty chairs , including one for pres bush . president kweisi_mfume says three are ` persona non grata ' . photo . three issue statements saying no offense was intended .
 article on music teacher helen_hobbs_jordan , 98 , who has lived at salisbury_hotel on west 57th street for 54 years . coterie of former students who have stuck by her for decades is planning tribute to jordan that will also serve as surprise benefit to raise funds to maintain aide who cares for her and pay her rent so she does not have to move to nursing home .
 temporary installation the gates by artist christo and his wife , jeanne-claude , is officially unfurled in new_york_city 's central_park . vast populist spectacle of good will and simple eloquence consists of 7,500 16-foot-tall gates skirted with saffron cloth . parks dept resisted idea for more than 20 years until approval was given for slimmed-down project in 2003 . mayor bloomberg initiates unfurling , which is completed by paid helpers attended by mobs of well-wishers .
 susie_ibarra and husband roberto_j_rodriguez perform together as electric kulintang , melding indigenous music , field recording , live percussion , atmospherics and dance beats into hybrid that ibarra calls ` filipino_gong_electronica ' . ibarra first made her mark in music scene as jazz percussionist and rodriguez is cuban-american percussionist and composer . will perform from album 7000 mysteries at joe 's pub . photo .
 movado_watch_co chairman gedalio_grinberg , in letter to american_ballet_theater_board citing mismanagement , withdraws company 's financial support , which had been considerable . gives backing , instead , to new_york_city ballet . grinberg , who resigned from ballet theater board in june to protest its ouster of lewis geyser , had questioned ballet theater 's financial accountability and its leadership under new chairman , lewis_ranieri .
 investigator subrata_ghoshroy led government accountability office 's technical analyses of prototype warhead for antimissile weapon at heart of bush administration 's $ 250 billion missile defense program . says agency ignored evidence that main contractors boeing and trw doctored data , skewed test results and made false statements in 2002 report . years of test failures have thrown program into disarray , and military has recently begun to look for more reliable kill vehicle .
 restaurant industry has gone on hiring spree in last four months , accounting for 18 percent of 300,000 new jobs in what may be prelude to wider gains in employment market . restaurant business , with about $ 420 billion in annual sales in us , accounts for 6.6 percent of economic activity and 11.7 million workers , and tends to benefit directly when consumers expand spending . wages are relatively low but even fast-food places are paying well above federal minimum of $ 5.15 an hour . fastest-growing category includes beverage and snack shops like starbusks and dunkin ' donuts , although much of growth is coming from ` fast-casual ' restaurants such as applebee and red lobster .
 bloomberg_administration says new_york_city 's commercial waste , much of which is shipped through bronx and brooklyn , will instead be directed to marine transfer station on manhattan 's west side . announcement is first installment of larger plan that mayor_michael_r_bloomberg will release detailing how city intends to handle its trash over next two decades now that fresh kills landfill on staten_island is closed . plan to ship commercial waste from manhattan is partly aimed at reducing traffic and pollution burden faced by neighborhoods in northwest_brooklyn and south_bronx .
 syracuse_university_group 's annual_assessment_of_internal_revenue_service 's performance finds probes and prosecutions of suspected tax criminals have fallen by half over last_decade , even as cheating has grown . finds irs is concentrating on relatively minor cases , not pursuing prominent americans . documents continuing shift of tax burdens away from businesses and onto individuals , with corporations paying 10.5 percent of all taxes collected in 2002 , down from 16.4 percent in 1973 . irs issues own data in bid to discredit syracuse_university report , which relies heavily on justice_department_data_irs considers unreliable . its data also shows sharp drops in enforcement .
 matt_lauer and nbc agree to add three more years to his today show contract , which was to expire in 2008 . he will be paid $ 13 million a year . decision comes as co-host katie_couric accepts offer to move to cbs_evening_news and meredith_vieira , co host of the view , agrees to replace her .
 hoboken and jersey city , nj , have been transformed into havens for young families , and one of hottest new amenities in upscale condominium developments is school . exeter property co is developing 300-unit condo community in jersey city offering two preschools that will eventually expand to higher grades . beacon complex from metrovest equities , also in jersey city , is negotiating to provide new space in its complex for 75-year-old little harbor academy . in hoboken , developer lawrence will build facility for elysian charter school .
 exxon mobil , royal dutch / shell , chevron and sasol say they expect to invest more than $ 14 million over next five to seven years in joint ventures in qatar on obscure method to convert natural gas into clean-burning diesel fuel . energy minister abdullah_bin_hamad_al-attiyah , in interview , says qatar wants to be world capital for new age of fuels . companies also are looking elsewhere to develop alternative fuels .
 jeane_j_kirkpatrick , reagan administration 's first un ambassador and beacon of neoconservative thought who helped guide american military , diplomatic and covert action from 1981 to 1985 , dies at age 80 . kirkpatrick was first american woman to serve as un ambassador . she was only woman , and only democrat , in pres ronald_reagan 's national_security_council . no woman had ever been so close to center of presidential power without actually residing in white_house .
 cardinals electing 265th pope take first inconclusive vote two and half hours after locking themselves in their tradition-laden conclave . black smoke wafting from chimney over sistine chapel tells tens of thousands of people filling st peter 's square of results . first vote has traditionally been time to gauge strength of contenders and cast ballots for friends . cardinals will probably try to reach some consensus before returning for second vote on apr_19 . cardinal joseph_ratzinger celebrates mass before conclave . his homily is uncompromising warning against any deviation from traditional catholic teaching .
 several communities near oyster creek nuclear power plant in lacey township , nj , voice concerns about plant 's safety after its owner , amergen_energy , files to extend operating license for plant until 2009 . mcgreevey administration also questions plant 's safety , security and staffing . lacey township officials say they are satisfied with plant , which pays township $ 3.8 million in property taxes yearly . lacey also receives $ 11.4 million from state_energy tax for being home to plant .
 michigan 's democratic gov jennifer_m_granholm is pushing hard to close sweetheart land deal with toyota_motor_co in state where unemployment was 7.3 percent in december , tied with alaska as worst in nation . granholm believes declining market share of big three automakers -- general_motors , chrysler division of daimlerchrysler and ford_motor_co -- has resulted in rise in unemployment , and state must diversify . michigan is fighting in court to push through deal to sell public land to toyota that would allow company to expand technical center near university_of_michigan in ann_arbor . developer who outbid toyota by $ 16 million has sued to block deal , but courts have sided with state .
 chinese prosecutors indict zhao_yan , researcher for the new_york_times , on charges of fraud and disclosing state secrets , same case that was dropped two months ago . zhao has already spent almost 21 months in prison . defense lawyer mo_shaoping reports on visit with him . times executive editor bill_keller says there is no proof that zhao is guilty of anything but journalism .
 us officials say abu musab_al-zarqawi , jordanian terrorist leader killed in airstrike , initially survived bombing and died from his wounds after iraqi police and us soldiers arrived on scene . say two 500-pound bombs dropped on house where zarqawi was staying north of baghdad killed five other people instantly . pres bush congratulates lt gen stanley_mcchrystal on success of attack . mcchrystal commands military 's most secretive commando units , including army 's delta_force and naval special warfare development group , which were part of raid .
 long island journal column . aliana_lohan , 12 , of north_merrick , sister of actress lindsay_lohan , is working on debut album , has won leading role in independent movie and is in talks for network television series . george_flynn , scientist at state_university_of_new_york at plattsburgh , says infrared microscope analysis shows comet dust collected in canister during nasa 's stardust mission consists of crystals of mineral called pyroxene .
 investors have sold turkish stocks and bonds heavily since turkey and us failed to finalize deal last week to send ground forces through turkey into iraq . istanbul stock exchange has fallen by quarter from its february high and is approaching all-time low . country 's benchmark eurobonds are trading at 87.82 cents on dollar , down 19 percent in one week . rumors are swirling that government is nearing default on its domestic debt .
 new_york jets notebook discusses draft picks linebacker victor_hobson , fullback b j askew and last year 's pick offensive lineman jonathan_goodwin , all from michigan_university . receiver santana_moss is expected to take on larger role this season with departure of laveranues_coles . jets are still deciding on composition of special teams .
 oracle raises its hostile bid for peoplesoft from $ 21 to $ 24 a share , valuing rival computer software maker at $ 9.2 billion . told delaware court that it was leaning toward lowering offer . chairman jeff_henley calls bid best and last offer . oracle say delaware vice chancellor leo_e_strine jr asked it to make its best offer before he rules on its suit to force peoplesoft to remove poison-pill takeover defense .
 federal investigations of healthsouth_corp come as shock to birmingham , ala , and its business community , which regarded healthsouth_corp as leader in birmingham 's effort to refashion itself from steel-making capital of south into center for health care industry . healthsouth became of one of birmingham 's largest private employers , with 3,500 employees in and around city , as company expanded from regional operator of rehabilitation centers into national company .
 dell_computer survey for new_york_city_education_department finds that computers were distibuted in wildly uneven manner in school system . city council members are skeptical of report 's chief finding : that there is one working computer for every six students in city schools . city spent $ 270.8 million on information technology in fiscal 2003 , and about 14 percent of that went to maintenance and support .
 bureau of labor statistics reports that job creation revived in january after abrupt year-end slowdown , with employers adding 112,000 jobs for the month . this is job market 's best performance since economy started pulling out of recession in 2001 , but growth in employment is well under 175,000 jobs expected by forecasters , and short of 150,000 new jobs that economists consider necessary to absorb new entrants into labor force . unemployment rate declines slightly in january , to 5.6 percent from 5.7 percent in december .
 arts briefing column : montreal_world_film_festival , which runs from august 27 through september 7 , will show les marins perdus , latest film with marie_trintignant , french actress who died in paris on august 1 from gunshot wounds . dalai lama , who will tour new_york in september , will speak at avery_fisher_hall in benefit concert for healing the divide , new nonprofit organization that promotes culture , health , economic growth and technology in himalayan region . roya l scottish academy in edinburgh will open new gallery with exhibition by american painter helen_frankenthaler .
 vietnamese pres nguyen_minh_triet says he wants to focus his visit to washington , dc , on developing stronger economic ties with united_states . he bristles at recent criticisms over vietnam 's human rights record , including recent sentencing of two activist lawyers to long jail terms . some critics of vietnam have urged pres bush to cancel visit . bush says he will voice concern over issue .
 article on controversy over wilde building , modernist international style building constructed in 1957 , and its companion , emhart building , in suburban office park outside hartford , conn . cigna_corp razed emhart in 2003 to make way for golf course and residential development but has decided to let wilde building , former headquarters of connecticut_general_life_insurance_co , stand . hartford architect tyler_smith organized local architects and preservationists into campaign to save connecticut general .
 house votes 360 to 45 to pass $ 1.3 billion tax cut for small business , which will be linked to bill that would raise minimum wage to $ 7.25 an hour from $ 5.15 . senate , where democrats need republican votes to prevent filibuster , has coupled minimum wage bill with $ 8.3 billion in tax cuts for small business .
 article on sharp decline in voter turnout in connecticut since 1960 's , when 93 percent of registered voters went to polls . turnout dropped to 71 percent in 1996 presidential election and has been at least 20 percent lower in non-presidential years . advocates for more inclusive voting system praise state efforts to open voting to disenfranchised groups and nonprofit , governmental and political organizations have begun campaigns to educate people about registering and voting .
 samuel g freedman article on friendship formed between two foreign students at randolph-macon woman 's college in lynchburg , va : matea_osti , bosnian refugee whose family settled in new_zealand , and marwa_abdel_latif , palestinian refugee whose family lives in lebanon . both women are on full scholarship at college , where foreign students make up 81 percent of 730 students .
 federal judge_rodney_w_sippel presiding over price-fixing case involving monsanto_co said last week that he would not disqualify himself from case even though some lawyers in case said their was appearance of conflict of interest . sippel said he was unaware that in 1997 and 1998 , before his appointment as federal judge , he was listed in court records as lawyer representing monsanto in civil lawsuit at same federal courthouse . said he did no work on earlier monsanto case .
 this week column . mayor eddie_perez says three warring neighborhood gangs are behind recent rash of shootings in north end of hartford , conn , over last two weeks . city is adding extra police to violence-prone neighborhoods . new city policy that allows people to buy lower-priced parking permits at beach rather than government center results in higher number of beachgoers in stamford over memorial day weekend . stamford-based purdue_pharma , maker of oxycontin , posts $ 10,000 reward for information leading to arrests in string of robberies at pharmacies in central_arizona .
 new_york_civil_liberties_union study finds that from sept 2004 through october 2006 more than 360,000 people arrested in city were held beyond 24 hours . about 12,000 were held for more than 36 hours , many for misdemeanors . group is joined at city_hall by some members of city council in call for bill to require release in fewer than 24 hours . say those held over should have have right to sue city .
 toyota 's domination of hybrid vehicle sales is being challenged by german-american consortium of bmw , daimlerchrysler and general_motors , which has worked quietly to develop distinctly different two-motor powertrain . newly-unveiled system will be available in wide range of cars , trucks and suvs made by three companies , starting with 2008 chevrolet tahoe that gm says will achieve 25 percent better mileage in combined city-highway driving .
 state department tells congressional committee that , seven days after pres bush 's state of the union address , us diplomats warned international atomic energy agency that us could not confirm reports that iraq sought to buy uranium in africa . letter confirms deep misgivings in government about some intelligence that bush cited . white_house refuses to say how report got into speech , and says uranium issue was one of many pieces of evidence of iraq 's nuclear ambitions . democrats call for full-scale investigation .
 crime , drugs and prostitution blighted various neighborhoods of wilton_manors , fla , in mid-1990 ` s , but when gay bar opened in derelict strip mall in 1997 things began to change . boards were removed from other storefronts in mall , and more gay-oriented businesses opened . soon homes that would not sell for $ 80,000 even in frenzied market moved briskly for $ 300,000 to $ 400,000 as gay men and women priced out of south_beach , key west and victoria_park moved to wilton_manors . city of 13,000 is currently 35 percent to 40 percent gay and thriving . it has higher proportion of same-sex households than any other city in us except provincetown , mass , and guerneville , calif . gay and straight worlds have integrated without much incident in wilton_manors .
 two powerful bombs concealed in parked taxis in heart of bombay , india 's commercial capital , kill 50 people and wound at least 129 . blasts occur minutes apart , in packed shopping district and next to city 's favorite gathering place . it is unclear how bombs were detonated . bombay has been site of five explosions in last_eight_months . no one takes responsibility for latest blasts , but officials blame students islamic movement of india , saying group operates in conjunction with pakistan-based islamic militant group lashkar-e-taiba . both groups are banned in india . blasts come during period of easing of hostility between india and pakistan during which both sides have taken small steps toward rapprochement . indian officials , who have blamed pakistan in past for terrorist acts in india , do not do so after latest incidents , and pakistan condemns blasts as ` acts of terrorism ' .
 about 7,100 of nation 's 15,100 air traffic control workers will reach mandatory retirement age of 56 by 2012 , forcing federal_aviation_administration to hire at three times its normal rate . challenge is even more critical in new_york , where it takes longer to train apprentices than anywhere else and where trainees drop out at higher rate . bulk of retirements are coming in next few years because most of current controllers were hired in 1982 to replace workers fired by pres ronald_reagon for going on strike in 1981 .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry take questions from undecided voters in ` town hall ' style second presidential debate at washington_university in st_louis , mo . bush 's performance is more confident than in first debate , while kerry seems assured and comfortable . candidates offer sharply different responses on election issues . bush seeks to portray kerry as out-of-step liberal who would raise taxes on middle class . kerry charges that bush squandered huge surplus to give tax cuts to wealthy . kerry derides rationale for war in iraq but bush stands by decision .
 drs james t goodrich and david_a_staffenberg , who separated conjoined twins at children 's hospital at montefiore_medical_center in bronx , say they discovered 10 hours into operation that parts of twins ' brains were fused . says that after 90 minutes of soul-searching , they decided to press ahead and create ` a plane ' between two veins near center of fused area . twins , carl and clarence_aguirre , are in stable condition .
 serge_schmemann editorial observer column recalls deification in soviet_union of yuri_gagarin , first man in space , in light of china 's launch of its first astronaut , lt col yang liwei . see launch mainly aimed at lifting standing of china 's rulers at home and with world . recalls gagarin 's feat ultimately did soviet state and gagarin little good .
 paris hilton 's high tech cell phone was hacked and its contents posted on internet . her data woes were one of two privacy scandals that hit media last week . choicepoint_inc , one of largest buyers and sellers of personal data , says criminals posing as legitimate buyers of data purchased sensitive financial information on about 145,000 people . hundreds of cases of identity theft have already been documented , and law enforcement officials have made at least one arrest in case .
 frustrated passengers complain about problems encountered at 34th street / herald square subway station , where booth and its three turnstiles are closed from 9 am to 3 pm . mta spokeswoman marisa_baldeo says booth has always operated part time and , despite high passenger volume , there are no plans to extend its hours .
 editorial observer by adam_cohen says pres bush ducked debate question about future supreme court nominees , but he has said in past that his favorite justices are antonin scalia and clarence_thomas . calls them judicial activists who are eager to use fast-expanding federalism doctrine to strike down laws that protect people 's rights . says if bush gets chance to name three young justices who share views of scalia and thomas , it could fundamentally change america for decades .
 several public radio managers across country say national_public_radio 's decision to remove bob_edwards as host of morning edition is part of push by network , at urging of local partners , to stay competitive in increasingly crowded news marketplace . npr 's audience has grown 64 percent and program 's audience has grown by 41 percent in last five years . npr reportedly has received more than 17,000 calls and e-mails from angry listeners and web site , savebobedwards.com , has generated more than 3,000 signatures .
 pres bush will make transition to $ 75 million in public money , which sen john_kerry made in july . move leaves raising of ` soft money ' to political parties and advocacy groups . bush-cheney campaign and republican_national_committee have raised more than $ 487 million through july , while kerry-edwards and democrats have raised almost $ 387 million . republicans are making big push to capitalize on excitement of upcoming convention , although some republicans say donors are feeling fatigue .
 four american soldiers are wounded and at least two vehicles are destroyed in two attacks on military convoys , one west of baghdad and other in mosul in northern iraq . american soldiers now face dozen or more attacks daily . pentagon says american forces conducted series of raids in western iraq , seizing 80 people , including foreign fighters from saudi_arabia , jordan and sudan .
 investigation by army inspector gen stanley e green clears four of the five top army officers overseeing prison operations in iraq of responsibility for the abuse of detainees . they are lt gen ricardo s sanchez , maj gen walter_wojdakowski , maj gen barbara g fast and col marc_warren . sanchez is the highest-ranking officer to face allegations of leadership failure in the scandal . inquiry closes army 's book on whether the officers should be held accountable for command failings . brig gen janis_karpinski , army reserve officer who commanded the military police unit at abu ghraib_prison , is relieved of her command . she is the only officer to be punished .
 sen barack_obama , first-term illinois democrat , says he is considering run for white_house in 2008 in response to many democrats ' pressing him to join field . his remarks seen as latest indication of how wide open 2008 presidential field is -- and how confident democrats are that they are on ascendancy . democrats say run by obama would pose major complication to sen hillary_rodham_clinton , widely viewed as dominant figure in field of potential candidates . democratic field that included clinton and obama would be first time major party nominated black or woman to run for president .
 pres bush visits omaha to pressure democratic sen ben_nelson to support bush 's big tax cut package . two spend little time together , but nelson later offers to back tax cut over $ 350 million if it includes both cut in dividend tax and $ 20 billion in aid to fiscally ailing states like nebraska .
 bush administration 's new office of postwar planning holds secret session to assess government 's plans for securing and rebuilding iraq if saddam_hussein is overthrown . douglas_j_feith , under secretary of defense , rejects criticism that administration waited too long to organize office . bush 's special envoy , zalmay_khalilzad , and small group of american officials leave for turkey and meeting with iraqi opposition leaders on iraqi soil .
 republicans losses in new_york_state_senate races stun party that has ruled state_senate for 40 years . party is resigned to losing two seats , and possibly two more , including those held by sen nicholas_a_spano in westchester and sen nancy_larraine_hoffmann in syracuse . political experts believe that loss of spano could endanger joseph_l_bruno 's role as senate majority leader , although gov george e pataki 's support for bruno would make removing him uphill battle .
 long simmering tensions between white_house and central_intelligence_agency , mostly over iraq intelligence , have surged into open as leaks by cia sympathizers have embarrassed bush administration . cia supporters acknowledge that agency may have been wrong on weapons of mass destruction in iraq , but was right in prewar warnings about obstacles us armed forces would face after invasion . former high-ranking intelligence officials see open tensions as extraordinary , but there is suggestion that this has more to do with intelligence reform now on table than with iraq .
 20 percent mexican tax on soft drinks made with high-fructose corn syrup imposed in january 2002 has halted corn syrup imports from us and has helped restore five million-ton-a-year sugar industry , which supports up to three million mexicans . grupo azucarero mexico chief executive juan_cortina_gallardo says if us wants to send fructose to mexico , then it needs to give access to mexican sugar . behind dispute is determination of mexico and us , even under north american free trade agreement , to continue protecting their industries . industry representatives from both countries have been looking for compromise since october that woujld allow some corn syrup into mexico and open american market to surplus sugar .
 verizon communications and two unions representing 78,000 workers continue intense contract talks after unions waive strike deadline set for aug 3 . parties say for first time that substantial progress is being made . unions are communications workers of america and international brotherhood of electrical workers . any walkout would effect washington , dc , and states stretching from maine to virginia .
 michael_winerip column on st_philip 's academy in newark , which is sought out by prestigious prep schools hoping to recruit bright african-american students . students receive rigorous education and social polish they will need for life among wealthy white students . school is one of 15 urban schools in national_association_of_episcopal schools . more than half of its 270 students need scholarship to afford st philip 's $ 5,000 tuition .
 article on problems that young couples face as they stretch their budgets to buy their first homes in new_york_city metropolitan area . census figures show sharp increase in number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing in region . 44 percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing and one in six pays more than 50 percent . median price of homes in region has grown at more than double rate of rest of country .
 ricky_chavis is found guilty of washing blood off clothing of two young sons of terry_king and hiding boys in his mobile home for nearly two days after they bludgeoned their father to death in their home in pensacola , fla , and then set house ablaze . is sentenced to five years in prison for witness tampering and 30 years for accessory to murder . brothers -- alex , now 13 , and derek , 14 -- have pleaded guilty to third-degree murder .
 harvey_araton sports of the times column discusses induction of former st john_'s_university and minnesota_timberwolves player malik sealy into new_york_city basketball hall of fame , which , for sealy 's wife lisa , comes as bitter sweet reminder of both malik 's death in car accident at young age of 30 and struggle it has been to care for her family since .
 surveillance tapes are played in brooklyn courtroom showing justice_gerald_p_garson instructing paul_siminovsky on how to argue divorce case before him and showing siminovksy giving garson $ 1,000 in cash . tapes , shot with camera in ceiling of garson 's office , are played at trial of garson 's former clerk , paul_sarnell , and court officer , louis_salerno , who are charged with taking bribes to steer cases to garson . depict courthouse culture that appears at best indifferent to conflicts of interest if not outright collusion .
 officials in ingushetia , russia , say 97 people died in attacks around region on june 21 . authorities and survivors in nazran , capital of ingushetia , reconstruct grim tale of night in which tiny region briefly ceded control to islamic_guerrilla_force . officials say they were attacked from chechnya by mixed force of chechen , ingush and russian fighters , perhaps with arab jihadists among them .
 warner_brothers , largest television syndicator , is preparing major new internet service that will let fans watch full episodes from more than 100 old television series -- more than 4,800 episodes in first year . service , called in2tv , will be free and be supported by advertising : 2 minutes of commercials per half-hour episode , compared with 8 minutes in standard broadcast . america online , a fellow time_warner unit , will distribute service on its web portal . enhanced version of service will use peer-to-peer-file-sharing technology to get video data to viewers .
 more than 150 people gather in marfa , texas , to watch first public screening of movie giant since director george_stevens brought james_dean , elizabeth_taylor , rock_hudson and dennis_hopper there in 1955 to film what was then most expensive movie ever made . giant captured transformation of texas from artistocratic ranching economy into state dominated by roughhewn oilmen . screening concides with scheduled release of digital version of movie .
 charitable donations of everything from mittens and food to property and planes is coming under congressional scrutiny because of research by general_accounting_office that raises questions about real value of donated vehicles . vehicle donations cost government $ 654 million in tax revenue in 2000 . study suggests charities received less than 5 percent of value donors claimed in two-thirds of 54 donations to four charities that gave information to agency . rick_cohen of national_committee for responsive philanthropy says cars are tip of iceberg in terms of noncash donations that warrant whole new level of scrutiny .
 bolivia is embracing new assistance programs from venezuela and cuba since socialist evo_morales became president in january , highlighting united_states inability to win over bolivians despite hundreds of millions of dollars in aid contributed over decades . us has paid for infrastructure projects , building clinics and helping small businesses and has pushed for debt-forgiveness , but people who benefit from aid do not know it comes from us .
 principal mary_george of our lady of sorrows school on lower east side is one of 14 principals granted permission to appeal decision by roman catholic archdiocese of new_york to close their schools in sweeping reorganization . george said that she and rev ed_conway decided to present hard economic and demographic data , rather than emotional pleas , to archdiocesan officials on behalf of school 's 165 students . more than 90 percent of students are hispanic and most from low-income housing projects . archdiocese will make final decisions on closings by april 24 .
 violence has approached lowest level in four and a half years since israeli prime min ariel_sharon and palestinian pres mahmoud_abbas called for end to it on feb_8 , but almost daily bombings and shootings that fail or are headed off are still cause for skepticism . leaders face impasse , with israel reluctant to pull back troops in west_bank and palestinians saying israel has not lived up to its promises to ease restrictions .
 securities and exchange commission subpoenaes former aol_time_warner chairman stephen m case , current chairman and chief executive richard_d_parsons and several other top executives for questioning as part of its investigation into company 's accounting for advertising deal with bertelsmann_ag . time warner disclosed six months ago that sec was questioning its accounting for $ 400 million in revenue recorded under deal . company is defending its accounting and resisting restatement requested by sec .
 upswing in chinese economic activity in north_korea seen as one reason china is sending mixed signals about how vigorously it will enforce united_nations sanctions against north for its nuclear test . truckers carrying goods into north_korea from china say only change in border inspections has come on north korean side , where customs agents check loads more carefully for items deemed contraband by kim_jong - il ` s government . china 's leaders are said to be deeply angered over nuclear test , and united_states has praised china for approving sanctions , but question of inspections along 866-mile border between china and north_korea is different matter . us wants tightened border inspections by china as tool for squeezing north korean economy and ensuring that north_korea can not buy or sell nuclear materials . china is worried that destabilizing north_korea could begin exodus of refugees and has resisted changing inspections .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on spats breaking out in bush administration as it confronts scenario of americans coming to believe their trust was betrayed when pres bush and his team spread impression that saddam_hussein was about to blow us up and was behind sept 11 attacks . describes ` control freaks ' donald_rumsfeld and condoleezza_rice openly tugging over control of occupation of iraq .
 article on reaction of local residents and other elected officials to guilty plea by connecticut_state_repr_jefferson_b_davis . davis , 53 , has pleaded guilty to one count of risk of injury to minor after admitting that he masturbated in front of foster child living with him and his wife at the time . arrest warrant alleged that davis repeatedly sexually assaulted boy , now 12 , from 1998 to 2002 . plea agreement gives davis 10 year prison sentence , which has been suspended , 10 year probation and listing on state 's sex offender registry .
 successful launch and deployment of japanese weather satellite restores morale to rocketry program battered by its rival in china . last h2-a rocket launched from tanegashima_space_center in november 2003 was aborted in fireball over pacific . japan aerospace exploration agency runs one of world 's few rocket programs that is not offshoot of military program , but what is learned here is expected to spread to military , as japan embarks on missile defense program with united_states .
 white_house says pres bush has seen photographs of coffins of service members killed in iraq arriving at dover_air_force base and agrees with pentagon that releasing photographs was wrong . collection of over 300 pictures of coffins were made available after memory hole web site filed freedom of information act request . nasa says several news organizations mistakenly broadcast or published images of coffins that actually contained remains of astronauts killed in breakup of columbia space shuttle .
 clint_eastwood 's million dollar baby captures four top awards at 77th academy awards : best picture , best director , best actress -lrb- hilary_swank -rrb- and best supporting actor -lrb- morgan_freeman -rrb- . the aviator wins five awards , including best supporting actress -lrb- cate blanchett -rrb- , as director martin_scorsese is denied oscar for best director for fifth time . jamie_foxx wins best actor award for his portrayal of blues musician ray_charles in ray .
 black bike week is under way in myrtle_beach , sc , annual event that draws tens of thousands of black motorcyclists and other enthusiasts . days of black bike week may be numbered because black street parties frequently get shut down , especially in south , when they reach critical mass . lawsuit accuses myrtle_beach_city leaders of discriminating against black bikers and treating them worse than white bikers , who also rally in myrtle_beach .
 opec leaves current levels of oil production unchanged at 25.4 million barrels per day . opec president abdullah_al-attiyah says cartel was considering big cut but iraq oil production has been delayed for technical reasons . opec 's ability to get clearer understanding of what is happening in iraq is complicated by fact that 10 voting members of cartel are unwilling to welcome back iraq as full member as long as it lacks government , even interim one .
 yad vashem , holocaust museum and archive in jerusalem , has assembled most comprehensive listing to date of names of jewish holocaust victims . has identified more than three million of six million victims and is making information available online . project aims to restore identities to victims who lost their names when they were taken to concentration camps . database cost $ 15 million to $ 17 million to create and is searchable in hebrew and english . will be open for corrections and additions .
 sony bmg announces plans to recall million of cd 's by at least 20 artists because they contain copy restriction software that poses risks to computers of consumers . move is expected to cost company tens of millions of dollars . sony says all cd 's containing software will be removed from retail outlets and that exchanges will be offered to consumers who bought them . estimates about five million discs have been shipped with problematic software , and about two million have been sold .
 investigations by securities_and_exchange_commission and new_york attorney general elliot_spitzer of transaction between american_international_group and general re that may have improperly allowed aig to inflate its premium revenue are adversely impacting aig 's stock and credit rating . regulators are now looking at other finite insurance transactions that may have been used by aig to improve appearance of its financial statements .
 community development corp of long_island is building 22 single-family homes below market rate in mattituck , on land rezoned to allow building of ` affordable housing district ' . residents won chances to buy units through lottery . long_island is seeing spread of such affordable housing initiatives , even in pricey_east end , where median price for house exceeds $ 1 million .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column holds that koloy , chad , remote market town near border with sudan , is on front line of genocidal fury that sudan has unleashed on several black african tribes . maintains that after killing several hundred_thousand people in its own darfur region , sudan 's government is sending its brutal janjaweed militias to kill same tribes in chad . notes that bill_o'reilly refused to join him on trip , but ann_curry of today show and nbc crew did travel with him .
 col james_b_hickey , who headed operation that seized iraqi pres saddam_hussein , describes operation by army_assault_troops and special operations unit that included central_intelligence_agency officers . says force missed hussein on first sweep through ad dwar mud hut compound and palm_grove but later found cramped underground hide-out . says capture of member of ` very important ' tikrit family during series of raids in baghdad against hussein loyalists provided key breakthrough . expresses surprise at lack of fight .
 two american soldiers are killed and one is wounded when convoy of special forces unit is attacked in southwestern afghanistan . names of dead are being withheld pending notification of families . americans have suffered 18 casualties in afghanistan since oct 2001 . local police chief muhammad wali khan blames taliban or al qaeda for attack .
 william_m_bulger , president of univ of mass , says he will testify before congresional committee about his fugitive brother james_bulger after committee grants him immunity from prosecution . panel has been investigating corruption in boston office of fbi and agency 's failed search for james_bulger , known as whitey . he disappeared in 1995 after being tipped off to secret federal indictment against him by fbi agent who grew up with bulger_brothers .
 white_house says there will be no recording or formal transcription of joint interview of pres bush and vice pres cheney by independent commission investigating sept 11 terrorist attacks . each side may bring one note taker , bush will not be under oath and white_house is adamant that what he says is not official testimony . bush photo in baltimore .
 op-ed article by felix_g_rohatyn , former us ambassador to france , says he hopes relationship between us and france will be rekindled when pres bush stands next to pres jacques chirac at military cemetery near omaha_beach on 60th anniversary of normandy landings . says two countries may disagree on various issues , but they need each other strategically , economically , culturally and , beyond that , because they share so much history .
 new_york_city correction dept says that two of six rikers_island inmates who killed themselves this year were on suicide watch , despite previous public statements by department officials to the contrary . says there was miscommunication between department officials . two inmates who had been on suicide watch were carina_montes and jose_cruz .
 los_angeles county_dept_of_health_services investigators obtain list of legal names of 53 adult-movie actors known to have had sexual contact with darren_james and lara_roxx , actors infected with aids virus , from clinic that tests performers monthly . los_angeles_county public health director jonathan e fielding requests state investigation into adult-film company in chatsworth where infected actors work .
 former sen max_cleland , who lost both legs and one arm in vietnam , is campaigning vigorously for sen john_kerry for president , collecting ` band of brothers ' along the way and emerging as powerful symbol for both veterans and democrats . photos . cleland , bitter over republican attacks on his patriotism that led to defeat by saxby_chambliss in georgia in 2002 , says he seeks not retribution but healing .
 japan 's economy expanded 3.9 percent at annualized pace in april-to-june_quarter , nearly twice as fast as originally reported , as capital spending was better than expected . new figures put to rest any lingering concerns that japan 's economy will slip back into recession , at least during this year . current account surplus expanded 34.6 percent in july from_year_ago . prices fell 2.5 percent during_quarter , more than 2.1 percent initially announced .
 chancellor gerhard_schroder , moving away from germany 's near-total opposition to united_states 's iraq policy , says he wants to reach accord on security council resolution sought by us and britain to lift economic sanctions and give us and britain broad authority to run nation , news conference , berlin , with state_sec_colin_l_powell . agrees that united_nations sanctions should be lifted . apparently seeks to mend ties with allies . min joschka_fischer , after separate meeting with powell , calls us draft resolution good basis for talks . russian deputy min yuri_v_fedotov say russia and china want further ` serious amendments ' to draft .
 devastating earthquake rocks bam , ancient city in iran , killing thousands of people and destroying 70 to 90 percent of residential areas . us geological survey puts magnitude at 6.7 . provincial gov gen muhammad ali_karimi puts initial number of dead at 5,000 to 6,000 . says toll is expected to rise to 20,000 . says 30,000 people have been injured . one of most important structures lost is bam_citadel , mud fortress that traced its origins back 2,000 years . it was largest mud-brick structure in world . photos . map . chronology of major earthquakes around world .
 oneida indian nation of new_york launches television ads opposing deal made by gov george_e_pataki that allows seneca-cayuga indians of oklahoma to become one of two tribes to build gambling casino in catskill mountain region . contends oklahoma_tribe will take profits out of new_york . does not oppose casino of other tribe , cayuga_indian_nation of new_york . empire resorts , seneca-cayugas ` investment partner , begins own ad defending deal .
 sen john_mccain in his presidential bid has hired three members of team that made commercials he claimed distorted his record in 2000 presidential campaign . has hired stevens_reed_curcio_&_potholm , who made what mccain regarded as dishonest commercials for swift boat veterans for truth attacking sen john_kerry in 2004 campaign . has also hired terry_nelson , who was behind objectionable advertisment in november midterm elections . moves taken together suggest mccain plans to run far tougher campaign than he ran in 2000 .
 interview with jeffrey_marx , whose self-published book , season of life , ranks tenth on new_york_times_nonfiction best-seller list . new edition of book will be published by simon_&_schuster . book is about rev joe_ehrmann , former baltimore colts defensive lineman who is now pastor of grace_fellowship_church in timonium , md , and volunteers as assistant football coach at gilman_school .
 two-story house in liverpool , eng , bears plaque saying john_lennon lived there from 1945 to 1963 . national trust has spent past year restoring interiors to time when lennon lived there , and now has opened it to public . those taking tour remark on such ordinary setting producing one of 20th century 's legendary figures .
 south_korea 's trade with north_korea rose 40 percent in first 10 months of year . south korean companies are building cars , roads , railroads and huge industrial park in north_korea . us , in contrast , is tightening economic screws on north_korea . western pressure is causing north_korea to miss out on series of billion-dollar infrastructure projects .
 lovely block-long street in gudermes is showcase for russia 's drive to show that life in chechnya , place devastated by decade of war and mired in abject poverty , is improving . has been rebuilt by ramzan_kadyrov , unelected first deputy prime minister , who may be most powerful , richest and most feared man in chechnya . is named for his father , assassinated president akhmad_kadyrov , but pays homage to son as well . his reconstruction efforts , like kremlin 's generally , remain erratic and infected with rampant corruption . he comments .
 pres bush uses earth day to promote his support for hydrogen-powered fuel cell cars , but democrats say cars are years away from reality and bush needs to do more to provide relief from high gasoline prices . general motors and energy dept have committed $ 44 million to fuel cell demonstration project , and department also has development agreements with ford , daimlerchrysler and hyundai .
 dr julie_l_gerberding , director of centers_for_disease_control and prevention , warns that mysterious respiratory disease , which has infected hundreds of people worldwide , could be spread very efficiently through close contact . expresses deep concern that it might also spread through air or on contaminated objects . disease , known as sars , may have sickened 78 people in one apartment complex in hong_kong over last three days .
 vicki_cottrell , executive director of utah_chapter_of_national_alliance for mentally ill and longtime friend of wanda_barzee , says barzee told her that salt lake city teen elizabeth_smart was kidnapped to become first of seven additional wives of barzee 's companion brian_d_mitchell . barzee reportedly says god told them to take elizabeth smart . mitchell , hours after cottrell_visits_barzee in jail , is charged with attempted kidnapping in burglary at house of jessica_wright , smart 's 18-year-old cousin .
 university of wisconsin and five other american universities operate research reactors that use weapons-grade uranium , raising concern that terrorists or criminals could steal fuel for use in bomb . energy dept has spent millions of dollars since 1978 to develop lower-grade fuel and convert scores of reactors to run on it . 39 of 105 research reactors worldwide have been converted , but six campus reactors are not among them . sec spencer_abraham , under pressure from state_dept , has promised to seek conversion of campus reactors by 2014 .
 article on plight of 10-year-old farzana_hossain , who has spent most of her life with her family in brooklyn . father , belayet_hossain of bangladesh , was picked up for violating his visa under controversial aspect of program requiring men from north_korea and 24 mostly muslim countries to register in person with us government . hossain will most likely be deported on february 19 and will take his wife and daughter with him .
 california is wary of fireworks setting off brushfires on july 4_weekend , after smoke-bombs in 2003 burned 43 acres and injured 8 firefighters . santa_rosa and oakland restrict sale , possession or use of fireworks by non-professionals . san leandro sheriff offered amnesty for surrender of illegal fireworks . inyo county sheriff 's dept seized 6,000 lb of illegal fireworks in may . 3,500 local charities , schools and non-profit organizations may still sell fireworks in 262 communities over ten-day period around july 4 .
 malaysian investigators report finds that network led by pakistani nuclear scientist abdul_qadeer_khan shipped partly enriched uranium directly to libya aboard pakistani airplane in 2001 , providing fuel stock in addition to designs and technology to make nuclear bomb . provides evidence that businessmen and engineers from turkey , germany , switzerland , britain , dubai and malaysia were closely involved in libya 's clandestine nuclear program . report is based primarily on malaysian authorities interrogation of b s a tahir , middleman in khan 's global nuclear trading network . international atomic energy agency report confirms that libya received shipment in feb 2001 .
 sen john_kerry , taking his presidential campaign to albuquerque , assails pres bush education policy , accusing administration of doing precious little to lower dropout rates and unveiling plan to help 200,000 more students graduate from high school each year . gives details about how he would spend $ 200 billion over 10 years on education . its centerpiece is enforcing provisions of bush 's no child left behind law on reporting graduation rates .
 lawyer david_boies ' ties to amici , document management company , has resulted in attacks on other aspects of boies ' conduct . lawyers for l dennis_kozlowski and mark_h_swartz , former top executives of tyco international who face years of prison time , have accused boies , tyco 's lawyer , of engaging in ` rank gamesmanship to the defendants ' disadvantage ' by withholding million potentially subpoenaed documents from defense until trial of two men was nearly over , and millions more until after their conviction . boies says one net of issues is worthy of concern -- concerns about ties to amici -- but dismisses rest as overzealous advocacy .
 viacom reprots net profit for fourth_quarter , but its shares fall 98 cents , or 2.6 percent , to $ 36.55 because cable networks division did not do as well as expected . says net income was $ 652.4 million compared with loss of $ 42.5 million year earlier . revenue rose 12 percent , to $ 6.78 billion . chief executive sumner m redstone says company will consider paying dividend at some point .
 china 's already large export business has accelerated this year , with customs agency announcing that february trade surplus nearly tied record in october . size of surplus , $ 23.76 billion , surprises economists because chinese exports tend to lag in winter after surging in late summer and autumn . surplus soared to $ 39.61 billion in january and february compared with $ 12.16 billion in those months_year earlier . american exports to china rose 24.9 percent , while imports grew 19.8 percent .
 international cricket tournament in african countries that learned game from british colonizers is disrupted in zimbabwe as two zimbabwe players , one black and one white , wear black armbands to protest pres robert_mugabe 's authoritarian rule . english squad decides not to go to zimbabwe for first world cup game , citing safety concerns .
 state_department says bush administration will withhold $ 34 million from un population fund for third_year in row because agency cooperates with activities in china that promote abortion . supporters of agency say it does not condone abortion and advocates voluntary family planning . debate has election-year overtones . bush campaign releases new political advertisement criticizing sen john_kerry for voting against parental notification for teenage abortions .
 national science foundation may not be able to fulfill its plan to turn homestake mine in lead , sd , into deep underground laboratory to conduct research not possible on earth 's surface . barrick_gold_corp , owner of homestake , says it will shut off pumps at homestake early this week , arguing that it would be foolish to spend more than $ 250,000 a month to keep mine dry and that water could be pumped out later if plans for lab become more certain .
 russian women are unlikely to have enough babies to reverse population slide that threatens russian power in 21st_century , even with financial incentives urged by pres vladimir_v_putin . nation 's low birthrate is more than two decades old , and number of women ages 20 to 29 , most fecund segment of population , has already fallen to 12 million and will fall to 8 million or fewer in next several years . adding to problem is russia 's high death rate .
 st john 's college -lrb- minn -rrb- football coach john_gagliardi has led team to 8-0 record and is poised to win 409th victory in 55th season , moving gagliardi to no. 1 in career coaching victories . gagliardi 's untraditional approach to coaching , which includes requiring players to call him john , has received as much attention as his winning record .
 jason_zinoman article on collaboration of acting coach susan_batson and sean ` puffy ' combs , also known as p diddy , who is making his broadway debut in role of walter_lee_younger in revival of lorraine_hansberry 's play a raisin in the sun . focuses on career of batson , who is well-known in industry for her work as coach to many film stars and as artistic director of acting_school_black_nexxus_inc . combs and batson comment .
 article on paul_green , former member of rock cover band who has opened paul_green_school_of_rock_music in philadelphia and teaches youngsters to play rock and roll music . enrollment has grown from 17 students in 2000 to 175 today with 15 instructors . green plans to open satellite school in downington , pa .
 style article on farnsworth_house , glass-and-steel aerie built by mies van der rohe in 1951 for dr edith_farnsworth on 58 acres along fox_river in plano , illinois . two feuded over house , which mies had designed without screens , window shades or closets , and property was sold to british arts patron lord palumbo in 1968 . photos . former gov george_ryan 's plan to buy house for $ 7 million and turn it into museum fell victim to budget deficit and fate is uncertain .
 police are searching for one suspect in string of robberies on staten_island that began on jan 19 . burglaries have been reported in at least 13 homes and have accounted for nearly 39.5 percent increase in burglaries in 120th precinct this year . police are deploying supervisors and dozens of additional officers to work streets in neighborhoods being targeted .
 laurel graeber family fare column discusses sports challenge at new_york hall of science in flushing_meadows-corona_park , queens , aix restaurant 's thinking inside the box benefit for needy new_york_city public schools and family scavenger hunt and nocturnal creatures hike at flat rock_brook_nature_center in englewood , nj .
 vince_kaminski , former enron managing director who evaluated risk for company , testifies that he strenuously objected to formation of off-balance-sheet partnerships directed by andrew_s_fastow and urged company to ` come clean ' about risks they posed . says he saw conflict of interest in ljm partnership set up by fastow . former employee christopher_loehr also testifies in seventh week of trial of former enron chief executive jeffrey_k_skilling and founder kenneth l lay .
 mcdonald_'s_corp reports 29 percent increase in first-quarter earnings based largely on favorable currency trends . also logs losses in sales at stores open at least year , 13-month trend that has troubled mcdonald 's business . net income rose to $ 327.4 million , up from $ 253.1 million year earlier . revenue increased 6 percent , to $ 3.7 billion from $ 3.5 billion . chairman-chief executive james r cantalupo comments .
 information that white_house has refused to provide to congress for its review into nomination of john_r_bolton reportedly includes names of american companies mentioned in intelligence reports on commerce with china and other countries covered by export restrictions . it had been reported that white_house was refusing only to hand over names of 19 individual americans mentioned in 10 intelligence reports by national_security_agency .
 eight democratic presidential aspirants hold first debate , surprisingly sedate encounter filled with as many moment of awkward humor as memorable insights into their qualifications or policy differences . sen hillary_clinton is professorial and emphatic discussing health care and iraq , sen barack_obama is reserved and cautious and sen joseph_biden draws laughter with one-word reply , yes , to question relating to his usual verbosity . photo . debate at south_carolina_state_university is shown on msnbc and moderated by brian_williams . all criticize pres bush 's vow to veto iraq spending bill with timelines for us withdrawal and supreme_court 's upholding of law banning form of late-term abortion .
 nbc_universal and paxson_communications are entwined with each other more than ever , in everything from promotions to advertising sales to program development , even as ties sour and nbc sues paxson for bigger dividends on its 32 percent paxson stake . much has changed since nbc bought stake in paxson , which owns 61 broadcast stations and pax tv , part-time network devoted to family programming . nbc executives say suit is largely technical issue , but tone is consistent with recent conflits between two companies , which have often centered on nbc 's charges that paxson is poorly managed .
 federal judge_emmet_g_sullivan strikes down bush administration regulations permitting 950 snowmobiles daily in yellowstone_national_park . says clinton administration decision to phase out snowmobile use had been arbitrarily reversed . earlier rule holding maximum number of machines to 493 in yellowstone and 50 in grand teton national park will go into effect . interior sec gale_norton defends policy , citing improvements in snowmobile technology . environmental groups that brought suit hail decision .
 simmering dispute with europe comes to forefront when pres bush says there is ` deep concern ' in united_states that lifting european_union 's arms embargo against china will change balance of relations between china and taiwan . issue has been one of few disagreements to spill into open during bush 's trip to repair relations across atlantic . administration also fears that lifting ban would allow such technology , especially advanced radar and communications systems , to be passed on to other countries . bush speaks at joint news conference with nato_sec_gen_jaap_de_hoop_scheffer .
 letters from david_levner , sid_tamm , stephen_jones , dale_macdiarmid and scott_hight oppose pres bush 's decision to delay his announcement of new strategy for iraq until early next year . susan_stern letter holds that we have had congress that prides itself on cutting taxes and relying on supplemental budgets to finance costly , ill-conceived war .
 op-ed article by henry_blodget , former stock analyst , says bonuses awarded this year to goldman_sachs employees -- a total $ 16.5 billion or some $ 623,000 per employee -- may not have been generous enough . says goldman_,_sachs employees consistently surpass those at other firms in taking risks , adapting to change and developing profitable opportunities . says they even paid themselves less as percentage of revenue this year than they did last and less than employees of other wall street firms .
 pentagon official says army will recall 5,600 former soldiers for year-long tours , mostly assignments in iraq and afghanistan , under rarely used wartime program that lets it recall soldiers who left service and did not join reserves . members of congress cite move as more evidence that deployments to iraq , afghanistan and global campaign against terrorism have left army unable to fulfill all its missions . sen john_kerry 's presidential campaign expresses concern . pentagon and military officials have rsisted calls to increase size of army .
 faa plans to handle looming wave of retirements of air traffic controllers by overhauling training , improving management and allowing some controllers to work beyond mandatory retirement age of 56 . almost three-quarters of nation 's 15,000 controllers , most hired after pres reagan dismissed strikers in early 1908 's , will retire in next ten years . admr marion_c_blakey and union president john_carr discuss issue .
 eric_weisbard essay on new understandings of history of american music , focusing on musician robert_johnson and birth and evolution of blues . discusses books escaping the delta : robert_johnson and the invention of the blues by elijah_wald and lost sounds : blacks and the birth of the recording industry , 1890-1919 by tim_brooks . also notes influence of cuban music as discussed in book cuba and its music : from the first drums to the mambo by ned_sublette .
 first phase of large expansion of queens_center , which has 21 million visitors a year and is one of region 's busiest schopping centers , is to be opened at end of march . construction will almost double retail space by end of year . when completed , shopping center will have 175 retailers , up from original 67 .
 bill and hillary_clinton are main attractions on opening night of democratic convention in boston . delegates burst into deafening applause as sen clinton appears to introduce her husband , whose speech lauds sen john_kerry . campaign is not shrinking from enlisting clintons ' help , as al_gore did in 2000 . delegates also embrace jimmy_carter , who vows to work for kerry campaign .
 bush administration officials are shrugging off what some acknowledge to be series of mistakes in relations with turkey since before war in iraq . last feb , turkey rejected american appeals to allow american soldiers to go through turkish territory to fight in northern iraq , just few months after deputy defense sec paul d wolfowitz claimed turkish assent was ` assured ' . supporters of wolfowitz and supporters of secretary of state colin_powell blamed each other . now those recriminations are playing out again as turkey decides not to send troops to help patrol iraq .
 herman_wanggai and over 30 other papuans arrived in australia on jan 13 after six-week voyage in motorized outrigger . australia granted wanggai and all his passengers , save one , political asylum . decision set off diplomatic firestorm that has brought issue of papuan independence to international attention , which is just what wanggai and his wife , ferra_kambu , wanted . indonesia has recalled its ambassador and indonesian politicians have called for trade sanctions .
 islip , ny , town supervisor peter_mcgowan pleads guilty to accepting thousands of dollars in kickbacks and stealing from his campaign fund . resigns from post before guilty plea . was considered major republican party figure on long_island . will be sentenced to no more than one to three years in prison . sentencing is set for may 4 .
 anthony_tommasini reviews gala inaugural concert in sosnoff theater of richard_b_fisher_center for performing arts at bard_college , which was designed by frank_gehry and whose acoustics are work of tasuhisa_toyota . leon botstein leads american_symphony_orchestra and concert chorale of new_york in mahler 's symphony no . 3 .
 three powerful explosions shake central baghdad in rapid succession , apparent mortar attack on us civilian headquarters compound . photo . map . four people reported injured . spain sharply cuts back diplomatic staff in response to continuing violence . us soldier is killed and two others wounded when homemade bomb strikes their vehicle in capital . guerrillas in mosul fire rocket-propelled grenades at hotel headquarters of 101st airborne division . gunmen kill prominent iraqi judge_ishmael_youssef in his home in mosul . chief judge in najaf was murdered day before .
 article on serious dune and beach erosion that is occurring along beaches in sagaponack and hampton bays on long_island 's south fork . homeowners , coastal geologist aram terchunian and others who are watching situation say northeaster this winter might cause breach to east , at tiana_beach in hampton_bays , similar to that which occurred in 1992 hurricane , when barrier island was breached and 190 houses were knocked into ocean . town of southampton and several homeowners have paid tens of thousands of dollars over last two weeks to truck in sand , which is seen as only stop-gap measure , and are pursuing permanent solution in court .
 article on lingering bitterness in irvington and briarcliff_manor , ny , in wake of recent elections . irvington mayor dennis_flood , unchallenged for 14 years , lost by one vote to challenger erin_malloy and state_supreme_court judge has issued order stopping malloy 's certification . incumbent briarclif manor mayor peter_chatsky , who broke with tradition by choosing to place his name on general election ballot rather than participate in people 's caucus , has been ousted by challenger william_vescio by vote of 1,000 to 927 .
 expectations that kyrgyzstan would lead its neighbors toward pro-western alignment are being questioned by recent events . two american envoys were expelled in july , prompting us to respond by ejecting two kyrgyzstan diplomats . office of united_nations high commissioner denounces kyrgyzstan 's decision to repatriate five uzbeks with united_nation-sanctioned refugee status .
 murder of four members of coptic orthodox church in jersey city , nj , revives centuries-old rift between egypt 's christians and muslims . speculation that victims , members of one family , were killed because of their religion has run rampant , even though police say they believe robbery was motive . for decades , jersey city has been experiment in peace between muslims and christians from egypt . two groups , at odds in their homeland , bonded as immigrants , mingling at same cafes , schools and shops , glued by one language and national identity . now friedships once free of religious division are strained , in ways subtle and blunt . murder victims are hossani_armanious , his wife amal_garas , and their daughters sylvia , 15 , and monica , 8 . their bodies were found in their home with their throats slit .
 new york times / cbs_news poll shows that new yorkers believe air quality in lower manhattan after sept 11 attacks was more dangerous than officials said at time . about half say federal government should be financially responsible for medical bills of people who lived or worked downtown . 56 percent of respondents outside borough of manhattan say rebuilding of lower manhattan is proceeding well . only 42 percent of residents in manhattan agree .
 article on kingdom life christian_church , independent and nondenominational church in devon section of milford , conn , and its pastor , bishop jay_ramirez . church reportedly owns 21 properties totaling 75 acres and worth more than $ 20 million . congregation recently offered $ 100,000 in pledges on consecutive sundays in july in effort to buy building containing pornography shop .
 recent polls suggest new jersey , traditionally democratic state , may now be toss-up in coming presidential election . republican strategists say convention message , which painted pres bush as unflinching avenger in war on terror has helped in new jersey , which lost 700 residents in sept 11 attacks . bad news involving gov james_mcgreevey 's aides and contributors and mcgreevey 's resignation amid sex scandal are also cited , but sen kerry 's struggle in new_jersey_mirrors_national_trends in which he lost ground among swing voters . neither side is willing yet to declare new jersey a battleground state , nor are they focusing more resources there , but kerry campaign hopes aggressive case against administration 's record on terrorism and iraq will resonate with voters .
 article on teenage volunteer emergency workers in new_york metropolitan area . vast majority of teens have received certification in one of first two levels of emergency service training . training at summer session at emergency_medical_services_institute_at_stamford_hospital in connecticut and scene at darien_emergency_services_post 53 volunteer_ambulance_corps , which has 58 members ranging from 14-year-old candidates to 17 - and 18-year-old crew chiefs , described .
 lester_speight , actor who plays brash , voluble character named terry_tate in series of popular television and online commercials for reebok_international , has filed to appear on california ballot of oct 7 gubernatorial recall election . filing of nomination documents , overseen by reebok_agency , arnell_group , is made under name lester_terry_tate_speight on nonpartisan party line .
 artists and craftspeople are pioneering new funerary art movement by creating sophisticated urns for ashes as well as other objects made from cremated remains . personalized art urns are specialty items that are growing part of death-care industry . roughly 32 percent of americans who died in 2005 were cremated , up from 21.1 percent a_decade_earlier and projected 51.12 percent by 2005 .
 long island journal column . more than 100 teachers and counselors at nonprofit center for science teaching and learning , founded by zoologist ray_ann_havasy four years ago , give classes and run camp sci-tech summer camps at newly refurbished tanglewood preserve in lakeview . larry_kronenberg , 84 , of bellmore , who is blind and deaf , has built and given away more than 2,000 kites to children since he won paper kite building contest when he was 10 .
 american international group chief executive maurice_r_greenberg shrugs off fourth-quarter loss brought on by huge one-time increase in reserves and says his company is well on its way to big profits in 2003 . company reports loss of $ 103.8 million in quarter . earned $ 5.5 billion for 2002 , up 2.9 percent from 2001 .
 durham , nc , is thriving as former tobacco-trading and cigarette-manufacturing city of 204,000 has become mecca for the obese . there are three major wieght-loss and nutrition centers in durham . last year about 4,000 obese people arrived in durham , hoping to change their lives . durham 's three main weight loss centers are duke diet and fitness center , structure house and rice diet program .
 israel and guerrilla_group_hezbollah follow through with deal to exhange prisoners and war dead from israel 's 22-year occupation of southern lebanon , which ended in 2000 . thousands of lebanese jam streets of beirut as 23 released prisoners are welcomed home as heroes . somber ceremony is held in israel as bodies of three war dead are returned and businessman elhanan_tannenbaum , kidnapped by hezbollah in 1970 , is freed . israel releases total of 429 prisoners , 400 of them palestinians .
 senior bosnian serb oficers dragan_obrenovic and momir_nikolic , key figures in organizing of srebrenica massacre eight years ago , tell war crimes tribunal in the hague that killings were well-planned , deliberate operation coordinated by serbian_army and militarized police . more than 7,000 bosnians died . two have pleaded guilty to crimes against humanity and are giving detailed evidence against two fellow officers .
 pentagon officials say that in first full-scale test of ballistic missile defense system in over a year , interceptor rocket launched from vandenberg_air_force base in california shot down target missile fired from military installation in kodiak , alaska . say that successful interception , which occurred in space over pacific_ocean , showed that fledgling system , put in place in 2004 by bush administration before testing was complete , would have good chance of stopping ballistic missile fired at us in limited attack .
 article on recent gathering of literary laureates at harvard_university_'s_w_e_b_du_bois_institute_for_african and african-american research , hosted by institute_director_henry_louis_gates_jr . panel for series of readings celebrating 70th birthay of nobel prize-winning nigerian writer wole_soyinka_consisted_of_caribbean poet and dramatist derek_walcott , south african writer nadine_gordimer , american writer toni_morrison and gates .
 ben_brantley article on fine serious theater returning to new_york stage after long period of escapism and triviality . focuses on play king_lear , starring christopher_plummer , revival of stephen_sondheim 's musical assassins , tony_kushner 's play homebody / kabul , with linda_emond , neil_labute 's play the distance from here , and ken_ludwig 's adaptation of ben_hecht-charles_macarthur play twentieth century , starring alec_baldwin and anne_heche .
 venezuelan pres hugo_chavez charges bush administration meddles in venezuelan affairs and supports forces trying to oust him , speech to large crowd of supporters , caracas . chavez , whose language has become increasingly hostile in face of united_states support for recall referendum , threatens to withhold oil from us if bush carries out aggressions . national electoral council prepares to challenge up to 1.4 million of 3.4 million signatures gathered by government foes to force binding referendum . two of councils five members score decision .
 liz_robbins inside the nba column discusses indiana_pacers ' three consecutive wins , which have come in spite of suspensions of three top scorers jermaine_o'neal , ron_artest and stephen_jackson for brawling with fans at detroit_pistons game . memphis grizzlies coach hubie_brown , who announced his retirement , discusses identity as coach . charlotte bobcats player emeka okafor discusses early acclaim he is receiving in rookie year .
 children of late ray_l_wallace , who died nov 26 at age 84 , created modern myth of bigfoot when he used carved wooden feet to stomp track of oversized footprints in northern_california logging camp in 1968 . family says prank was just a joke that has taken on life of its own , perpetuating indian lore about sasquatch , giant upright biped said to dwell in remote corners of pacific_northwest . true believers in creature are unfazed . zoologist wolf_henner_fahrenbach , anthropologist jeffrey_meldrum and psychologist matthew_johnson explain . their holy grail is 1967 home movie made by roger_patterson , amateur bigfoot hunter who has taken his secret to grave .
 kelly_hoppen , who is famous in britain as interor decorator , furniture designer , paint producer , london merchant and television guest , is negotiating to open kelly_hoppen boutiques in 15 us stores owned by neiman-marcus group , starting with bergdorf_goodman in manhattan . hopes to have at least two free-standing stores in us , as well as shops in tokyo , paris and manchester , eng . envisions lifestyle series feature on american television . plans draw comparison between her and martha_stewart .
 mothers of murder victims in detroit have support group , save our sons and daughters , so sad , which tries to call attention to victims . number of children 16 and under killed in detroit jumps to 25 from 19 in 2001 , and city 's child homicide rate is 9 per 100,000 , higher than chicago , los_angeles , boston , san_diego or miami .
 grupo abril sells 13.8 percent stake to capital_group for $ 50 million , first such deal since country 's media law was revised two years ago to allow foreign investors to own up to 30 percent of brazilian media business . abril 's chairman-editor in chief roberto_civita says deal should allow company to resume growth after paying some of its $ 300 million in debt .
 airbus is expected to announce 8 billion euro -lrb- $ 10.2 billion -rrb- revamp of midsize a350 plane amid criticism of current design . delay of up to two years will give boeing comfortable lead in battle for lucrative business of 200 - to 300-seat planes . boeing has secured 350 orders for its 787 aircraft , compared to just 100 for airbus 's a350 .
 police find sherry_l_murphy , suspected in abuse of three children in newark . she is found sleeping in newark apartment of jean-claude_dessources , man she met days ago , who called police after seeing her picture on television reports of case . she eluded search that began after body of 7-year-old boy was found locked in basement of her house in newark , and boy 's two emaciated brothers were also found in basement . police say boys were left in her care by their mother , melinda_williams , while she served jail term for child endangerment . murphy 's own five children are staying with uncle .
 david_talbot , pioneer of online journalism who founded salon magazine in 1995 , will step down as editor-in-chief and chief executive . photo . longtime deputy joan_walsh becomes editor , elizabeth hambrecht chief executive . salon also announces first quarterly profit , $ 400,000 , on revenues of $ 2.2 million . talbot continues as chairman while writing book about robert f kennedy .
 russian and soviet-bloc immigrants are infusing new life into ballroom dancing , owning 11 of 23 fred_astaire dance studios in new_york_city area . examples are atanasov_brothers_of_brooklyn , aged 9 to 14 , who spend afternoons reluctantly taking lessons at king 's dancesport center . russians teach at other astaire studios around country , and sergei_nabatov teaches one-credit course at brooklyn_college . photos . russian dominance stems from immigration of exquisitely trained dancers , who in turn spur something of revival of cheek-to-cheek dancing in us .
 article on army staff sergeant riayan_agusto_tejada , 26 , native of dominican_republic , who died in combat in iraq in 2003 . west 180th street and st nicholas_avenue , block where tejada grew up , and local branch of us post office have been renamed in his honor . shrine outside his apartment building has become permanent , maintained by his parents .
 sterling , conn , is set to vote on regulations that would limit new contruction to lots of at least two acres , town 's first attempt at land use regulation . was spared development for years because it is off regular commuter routes , but its growth rate soared to 30 percent between 1990 and 2000 . sterling grew by 700 people , and newcomers want schools and services . longtime residents want to keep change in check .
 at least 15 of 17 uighurs , muslims from western china , who remain at guantanamo_bay have been cleared for release , but without place to go . us diplomats say that uighurs have asked nearly 100 countries for refuge , only to find that chinese officials have warned some of those nations not to accept them . photos of five uighur men who fled china for afghanistan , were held in cuba and then shipped to albania . they are ahmat adel , ayoub_haji_mamet , ahktar qassim basit , abu_bakker qassim and adel_abdul_hakim .
 article on problems that young couples face as they stretch their budgets to buy their first homes in new_york_city metropolitan area . census figures show sharp increase in number of people sinking large chunks of money into housing in region . 44 percent of suburban households with mortgages now pay more than 30 percent of their income for housing and one in six pays more than 50 percent . median price of homes in region has grown at more than double rate of rest of country .
 jared e abbruzzese , wealthy investor and close friend of state_senate majority leader joseph_l_bruno , is part of group competing to operate new_york state 's thoroughbred horse racing tracks . bruno will play central role in awarding that franchise . state lobbying officials are scrutinizing relationship between bruno and abbruzzese . bruno says no conflicts are involved . two of abbruzzese 's companies have contributed over $ 118,000 to campaign committee controlled by bruno . abbruzzese 's wife bought property for $ 90,000 from group involving bruno . bruno has also flown on abbruzzese 's private jet at least half dozen times , and he bought 2,000 shares in tejas_inc , small securities brokerage in which abbruzzese was involved . bruno has also helped abbruzzese over past four years .
 us attorney in boston is investigating fidelity investments as well as number of wall street banks to determine whether banks ' brokers plied fidelity traders with lavish gifts and decadent entertainment to try to win some of fidelity 's lucrative trading business . federal prosecutors in boston became interested in inquiry begun in november by securities_and_exchange_commission and nasd , when it became clear that sex and drugs were among enticements offered to traders .
 alberto_orlandez-gamboa pleads guilty in manhattan federal court to narcotics trafficking conspiracy charges . prosecutors say he is responsible for smuggling tens of thousands of kilograms of cocaine into new_york and other cities . case received widespread attention because he was one of first colombians extradited to us after colombia ended ban on extraditions in 1997 .
 pres bush , in istanbul to press nato allies to play greater role in iraq , faces resistance from critics of his administration 's previously unilateral stances who worry that iraq mission may be on brink of failure . normally friendly countries like germany , france and japan , as well as international organizations long dominated by us , are forcing administration to rethink its plans for security in iraq .
 united states appeals court in san_francisco overturns death sentences of over 100 prisoners in arizona , idaho and montana . rules 2002 supreme_court decision striking down capital sentencing laws in those states and two others because they let judges rather than juries make key factual findings in sentencing must be applied retroactively even to inmates who have exhausted all appeals . colorado and nebraska , two other states with unconstitutional sentencing laws , are outside courts jurisdiction . two other federal appeals courts have ruled that supreme_court decision does not apply retroactively .
 article on effort by wal-mart to build three supercenters in deptford township , population 28,000 , south jersey town which sits at confluence of several major highways -- interstate 295 , north-south freeway and state routes 41 , 47 and 55 . local residents , organized labor , environmental groups and small businesses say stores would adversely impact quality of life , traffic , safety and home values . town planners have approved one site but two others are in legal limbo .
 police are searching for clues in shooting death of darrell_abbott , lead guitarist for heavy-metal band damageplan , during concert at alrosa_villa_club in columbus , ohio . killer is nathan_m_gale , who stormed onstage and killed four people before being gunned down by police officer , but gale has no record of violence . some witnesses say gale was shouting about breakup of abbott 's previous band pantera . others killed were erin_halk , nathan_bray and jeff_thompson . fans have left items at site as memorial . career highlights .
 highlight of pres bush 's european tour may be his visit to albania , one of few places left where he can bask in unabashed pro-american sentiment . americans are greeted in albania with adoration that feels as though it comes from another time . tirana mayor edi_rama says albania is most pro-american country in europe , maybe even in world . thousands of young albanians have been named bill or hillary thanks to clinton administration 's role in rescuing ethnic albanians from kosovo war . country 's support for war in iraq is nearly unanimous and it was one of first allies to send troops to afghanistan and one of first to join forces in iraq .
 article explores reasons for dearth of restaurants in harlem despite neighborhood 's renaissance . 2006 zagat guide lists only 18 restaurants and new_york magazine 's online restaurant listing shows only 27 within 47-block neighborhood . restaurant consultant michael_whiteman attributes scarcity to relative lack of high-density office buildings and of tourism . additional challenges are unusually high rents and new_york state law that prohibits restaurants from serving alcohol within 200 feet of school or place of worship . some sections of harlem have church on nearly every block .
 yasir arafat acts to put some 20 palestinian militants under detention at his compound at ramallah on west_bank , but detainees refuse to be sent to jail in jericho , as demanded by israel as condition for withdrawal of its troops from ramallah . standoff reflects division between arafat and prime min mahmoud_abbas over how to handle negotiations with israel .
 china is playing growing role in diamond manufacturing industry , competing with india in particular . china is now world 's third-largest polisher of diamonds by value . china imports $ 800 million a year worth of rough diamonds and polishes them to become worth about $ 1.1 billion , accounting for 6 percent of value added by world 's $ 4.6 billion diamond polishing industry . india , with million diamond workers and 80 percent share of diamond pollishing business , is nervous . alarmed by pace and skill with which china is improving , india 's diamond industry leaders say that in diamonds , as in so many other businesses , china 's advance can not be stopped .
 russia increases its restrictions on abortion for first time in nearly half a century , reflecting first stirrings of wider debate over morality of abortion as well as effect abortions are having on women 's health and country 's declining population trend . regulations remain permissive , with no limits on abortions in first 12 weeks of pregnancy . collapse of soviet_union and increased availability of contraceptives have already caused abortions to decline from high of 4.6 million in 1988 to 1.7 million in 2002 .
 tour group of 500 south_koreans inaugurates first regularly scheduld land crossing of buffer zone since korean_peninsula was split by war half century ago . while rest of world prepares to debate north_korea 's nuclear-weapons program at united_nations , south_koreans are again focused on breaking down bariers with their northern cousins .
 democrats on capitol hill have scored few recent victories in republican-controlled congress , gaining measure of political momentum , with pres bush on defensive over his handling of postwar iraq . analysts and democrats link gains to drop in bush 's approval rating that followed his $ 87 billion request for postwar iraq . some say numbers have emboldened democrats and made republicans more likely to break ranks with their party and bush .
 american and canadian officials say firstenergy_corp of ohio should have prevented last_summer 's blackout across wide swath of north_america by intentionally cutting off electricity to most of cleveland area . blackout darkened much of midwest , northeast and ontario . panel convened by two national governments puts much of blame on firstenergy , one of nation 's largest utilities , in whose eastern ohio territory the collapse began . firstenergy , which rebutted criticism last year , declines to respond to latest charge .
 house passes resolution formally repudiating pres bush 's decision to send more than 20,000 combat troops to iraq . rare wartime rebuke to commander in chief -- act that is not binding -- is approved 246-to-182 , with 17 republicans breaking ranks to join all but two democrats in supporting resolution . historians say that resolution stands out because it criticizes specific battlefield tactic proposed by president . deliberations represented third major iraq debate in four years , but with democrats controlling congress , rules , tone and outcome changed . text of house resolution .
 more than 400 children contracted hiv at a local children 's hospital in benghazi , libya , in 1997-1998 . authorities have charged several doctors and nurses with negligence and have talked of foreign plot to spread hiv to libya . seven foreign medical workers , six bulgarians and one palestinian , have been in jail since 1999 , facing possible death penalty . libyan leader col_muammar_el-qaddafi , who has recently sought to bring libya back into international mainstream , is under pressure to intervene in the interest of justice , but to do so would force him to assign blame to country 's poor medical practices .
 indian government hopes to raise about $ 3.5 billion through six asset sales and use money to make substantial reductions in its deficit . deficit has widened in recent weeks as government has cut taxes and duties for middle class and farmers ahead of federal elections set for april and may . sale of government 's shares in oil and natural gas is expected to raise at least $ 2.14 billion .
 article on legal battles and rumors of sale surrounding privately owned brunswick_hospital and medical center in amityville , ny . nurses have voted to join new_york_state_nurses_assn , ostensibly to save hospital and their jobs . real estate developer ted_doukas and court-appointed receiver j stewart_mclaughlin deny rumors that hospital would be turned into condos or old-age homes . dr benjamin_stein , wife , claire , and son , douglas , are involved in legal battle with doukas over hospital 's ownership -lrb- m -rrb- .
 article on goat : a tribute to muhammad ali , 75-pound , 792-page , 20-by-20 inch book chronicling life of boxing legend muhammad ali covered in silk and louis_vuitton leather that is being published by taschen books . goat -lrb- for greatest of all time -rrb- will be sold in limited edition of 9,000 priced at $ 3,000 and 1,000 , with sculpture by artist jeff_koons , for $ 7,500 .
 article on attention that hbo is gaining for its film division , which has been making feature films for two decades . american splendor , docudrama about cult comic-book writer harvey_pekar , one of eight films hbo produced in last_year , has been nominated for academy award for best adapted screenplay . angels in america has won five golden globes and maria full of grace has won award at sundance .
 french government helped broker aventis-sanofi-synthelabo merger . finance min nicolas_sarkozy met with aventis 's chairman-chief executive igor_landau and his sanofi counterpart jean-francois_dehecq . extraordinary role that french government played in brokering merger raises questions about merits of deal and may chill deal making in france . prime min jean-pierre_raffarin defends his government 's role .
 san_bernardino , calif , diocese is suing archdiocese of boston for damages for failing to disclose history of sexual molestation of rev_paul_r_shanley , and for giving assurances that shanley was in good standing when he transferred from boston in 1990 . suit is believed to be first in which one us diocese has sued another . it underscores financial toll of sexual abuse scandal on roman_catholic_church .
 assemblyman howard_d_mills , in first televised debate of race for us_senate seat in new_york , accuses sen charles_e_schumer of being better at talking about issues than at actually delivering for his constituents . schumer says he has worked tirelessly for new_york in congress , and appears to be reaching out to mills 's base of republican voters and those who might vote for pres bush . mills enters debate way behind in polls and facing not only strong incumbent , but attacks from conservative party candidate dr marilyn_o'grady , who also participates in debate .
 no one had heard of army of islam until capture of israeli cpl gilad_shalit . israeli intelligence officials doubt significance of group and lay responsibility for capture on hamas . some experts in jordan say that army of islam represents first time_palestinian_group has adopted agenda of al_qaeda . say group played critical role in shalit 's capture . image from army of islam video shows muhammad bin farwaneh .
 mark_robertson is one of small number of death row prisoners who were sentenced from 1989 to 1991 by texas juries under procedure that united_states_supreme_court has held to be unconstitutional . opponents of death penalty say robertson 's imminent exeuction is demonstration that fifth circuit_federal_appeals_court , which heard robertson 's case , has not followed law set out in supreme court decisions concerning mitigating evidence and jury instructions in sentencing phase of capital trials . supreme court declined on aug 15 to hear robertson 's appeal .
 profile of cape may , nj , which , thanks to upscale restaurants that began popping up in 1974 , has become what is considered one of east_coast 's culinary capitals . zagat survey of new jersey places 6 of state 's top 40 restaurants in cape may , twice as many as any other city .
 haiti 's newly appointed prime minister , gerard_latortue , says it may take two years to prepare for elections , interview after returning to country after decades abroad . photo . jamaica says former pres jean-aristide may visit , raising speculation about return . latortue says aristide was ` father who did not take care of his children ' . gives priority to disarming thousands of armed gangs . hopes to use ties to un , where he worked for years , to restart aid .
 becoming coal miner in china is less a career choice than an act of desperation . china 's coal industry death rate is among world 's highest . it is job for poor who calculate that income , however modest , outweighs likelihood of injury and constant specter of death . china began shaft mining at least 1,800 years ago and now produces more coal than any other country , about 1.3 billion metric tons per year . last year , 6,121 people died in mines in china , 8 percent more than in 2001 . government seems inclined to tolerate high death rate to keep coal abundant and inexpensive . situation persists because people who have most at stake , miners , are too uneducated , disorganized or scared to do much about it . descriptions of some recent mining disasters in china .
 liesl_schillinger article about two one-act plays written for the radio that will be produced at st . ann 's warehouse in brooklyn . one was written by screenwriter charlie_kaufmann , the other by the filmmakers joel and ethan_coen . carter_burwell is writing the musical score and the cast will include several broadway stars .
 gasoline dealers post eye-popping prices across country , reflecting panic in both dealers and consumers not seen since days after sept_11_, 2001 , attacks . some stations on east coast and in midwest post prices well over $ 3 a gallon , putting their prices more in line with those of west_coast , where prices have traditionally been highest in recent years . aaa says average price for regular unleaded rises 6.1 cents , to $ 2.68 a gallon . adds pump prices are 44 percent higher than year ago .
 brief descriptions of some recently published humor books : national_lampoon sunday newspaper parody , edited by p j o'rourke and john_hughes , interior desecrations : hideous homes from the horrible 70 's by james_lileks , the bart book and the homer book by matt_groening , and yiddish with dick and jane by ellis_weiner and barbara_davilman .
 airline and law enforcement officials say that in days after sept 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 , nation 's largest airlines , including american , united and northwest , turned over millions of passenger records to fbi . senior fbi official says airlines cooperated willingly . airline industry officials say they can not remember another such sweeping request . sharing of airline passenger data with government has sparked some of most contentious conflicts underlying uneasy balance between privacy and security in post-sept 11 world .
 seattle , which has prided itself for decades on clean politics , is shocked by disclosure that three city council members who voted in june to approve expansion of parking lot at rick 's , nightclub featuring nude dancing , received sizable donations to their re-election campaigns that were tied to club 's owner frank_colacurcio jr . council members judy_nicastro , heidi_wills and jim_compton say they were unaware that donations were tied to colacurcio and plan to return money . council approved lot 's expansion in 5-to-4 vote in june , but reversed itself in august .
 adlai e stevenson_iii op-ed article rejects comparison of sec_of_state_colin_powell 's presentation on iraq to united_nations with adlai_stevenson 's un presentation in 1962 cuban missile crisis . says his father 's purpose was containing soviet_union and maintaining peace , whereas bush administration 's purpose is war . says iraq can be contained through committed monitoring by un .
 us navy is asking for $ 2 billion in federal emergency management agency funds to restore northrop_grumman 's three gulf_coast yards damaged by hurricane katrina . most of $ 2 billion will be used to rewrite northrop 's usual contracts with navy to shift full burden of hurricane-related cost overruns and shipbuilding delays from northrop to government . northrop is expected to get $ 1 billion from its insurers to repair damaged buildings .
 cia repeatedly told white_house after sept 11 attacks that evidence linking iraq to al_qaeda was ` murky ' and conflicting . judgment contrasted starkly with bush administration 's depiction of close , well-documented relationship , which it used to justify war in iraq . cia 's conclusions on possible iraq-qaeda link mirror those of senate_intelligence_committee staff investigators .
 new_york philharmonic is teaming up with deutsche_grammophon to release live recordings of four concerts a year available for download , most likely through itunes . also makes deal with new world records to release two cd 's a year of new works commissioned and played by orchestra in their world premiere . philharmonic has one of largest back catalogs of any major orchestra and has not released recordings on large scale since 1990 's .
 former senior state dept official donald_w_keyser denies passing classified information to taiwan , but acknowledges he may have been sloppy in reporting foreign contacts . federal bureau of investigation agents allegedly saw keyser giving and showing documents to two taiwanese contacts in july and august . his arrest this week shocked former colleagues , among whom sympathy for taiwan is weak .
 abercrombie_&_fitch chief executive michael_s_jeffries says he plans to run company his way despite slumping sales . company plans to introduce new abercrombie starting july 14 . new ezra_fitch line will be introduced nationally . jeans will sell for $ 118 to $ 148 . pink cashmere crew neck is $ 178 . jeffries says he is determined to keep abercrombie on edge with both fashion and image . insists he is unconcerned about weak sales numbers .
 families of people killed by catholic and protestant paramiliary groups in northern ireland are increasingly defying sectarian fighters by coming forward with their stories . sinn fein has been unable to dampen outrage over january killing of robert_mccartney , catholic who was unaffiliated with any paramilitary groups . sectarian conflict in northern ireland has claimed more than 200 lives in past 10 years and only 30 people have been successfully prosecuted . mccartney 's sisters have given numerous interviews in effort to force ira into lifting intimidation that has prevented 70 witnesses to killing from testifying .
 house votes , 224-201 , over furious democratic objections , to increase tax credits for 6.5 million low-income families but only as part of larger $ 82 billion tax-cut bill that provides 96 percent of its benefits to middle - and upper-income taxpayers . republicans omit senate bill 's provision for immediate checks of $ 400 a child to minimum-wage earners , who will have to claim that as refund next year . bill also drops senate provision to count combat pay , which will cut off many military families from tax credit . republicans say tax cut is to spur economy , not give checks to families that do not pay taxes . deadlock seen with senate , which may impel_white_house to push for compromise .
 first reports of bird flu in india , egypt and france highlight disease 's accelerating spread to new regions . recent acceleration has perplexed many health experts , who watched a -lrb- h5n1 -rrb- virus stay in asia for nearly five years . outbreaks in india are particularly alarming because of dense population and feeble public health system . most perplexing report involves single case in france -- wild duck found dead in suburbs of lyon .
 italian police detain seven executives and advisers of parmalat and are seeking an eighth , significantly widening investigation of events that led to company 's collapse under about $ 11 billion of liabilities . ` are holding two former chief financial officers , fausto_tonna and luciano_del_soldato , as well as company lawyer and two of its auditors from grant_thornton .
 article in series , economic pulse , examines effects of economic downturn on mountain states of west , namely : wyoming , montana , colorado and utah . growing high-technology centers in utah and colorado seemed places of boundless potential two years ago , but thousands have since been turned out of jobs , victims of bursting technology-telecom bubble , while montana and wyoming have fared relatively well on backs of their natural resources .
 syrian interior min ghazi_kanaan , government 's key man in lebanon for two decades , is found dead in his damascus office . official syrian news agency calls it apparent suicide . his death adds ominous twist to continuing united_nations investigation into assassination of lebanon 's former prime minister rafik_hariri in beirut in feb . many lebanese , as well as members of bush administration , feel it was work of syrian officials . two officials familiar with international investigation voice doubts that kanann 's death was suicide . he had been under increasing international pressure after hariri 's killing . he sounded emotional in his recent interview with voice_of_lebanon_radio .
 grand jury investigates whether presidential adviser karl rove committed crime when he spoke with columnist robert_novak about cia officer valerie_plame_wilson , and political operatives recall that in 1992 , rove was fired from texas re-election campaign of first pres bush on suspicion of leaking information to novak , charge both denied at time .
 jane e brody_personal_health_column discusses risks associated with pregnancy for women over age of 20 . suggests that older women need to be aware of potential complications and prepare for possible disappointment if they can not become pregnant . dr shirley_fong and dr peter_mcgovern of university_of_medicine and dentistry of new_jersey_'s_department_of_obstetrics_gynecology and women 's health publish study in journal contemporary ob / gyn that explains some reasons why older women have more trouble becoming pregnant and sustaining healthy pregnancy . one third of women in early 40 's experience miscarriage compared to 10 percent in women under 30 .
 fifteen leaders of european_union attend quarterly summit meeting in brussels and issue statement of solidarity -- not on merits of war in iraq but on way to secure peace . europe is still deeply split over iraq . crisis has driven wedge between prime min tony_blair of britain and pres jacques chirac of france . blair blames france for failure of world to unite against iraq .
 memorandum by mike_henry , deputy campaign manager for hillary_rodham_clinton , makes case for ignoring iowa 's first-in-nation caucuses next jan 14 and devoting candidate 's limited time and resources to contests in much bigger states in following three weeks . henry notes that those states will be mailing millions of absentee ballots in weeks before iowans gather for their caucuses , potentially diminishing iowa 's importance .
 op-ed article by theodore_b_olson , who represented george_w_bush_before_supreme_court in 2000 , lists factors that might bring 2004 election before supreme_court also . tight elections , such as current one , offer trailing candidate incentive to challenge outcome . ralph_nader 's involvement may mean neither candidate will receive majority of popular vote . number and types of opportunities for election litigation seem to be limitless this year . all three branches of government are in play in 2004 , so stakes could not be higher .
 region in united_states that produces and refines major portion of nation 's oil and natural gas is largely shut down by hurricane katrina , further tightening strained energy markets and sending prices to new highs . oil companies evacuate offshore operations throughout gulf_of mexico , reducing oil production in region by 92 percent and gas output by 83 percent . bush administration says it would release emergency oil stocks from strategic_petroleum_reserve if needed . storm hits at time when consumers are already paying average of $ 2.60 a gallon for gas .
 plans for rail link connecting lower manhattan and kennedy_international_airport hit snag as congressional tax analysts estimate that federal tax credits that new_york_city and state officials want to use for project are worth about $ 1.3 billion less than officials had hoped . estimate does not jeopardize $ 6 billion project , but it will force new_york lawmakers to scramble for other sources of federal money to make up $ 1.3 billion at time_federal_transportation_money is in short supply .
 frank j prial wine talk column reports that 2003 was good year for wine in united_states . says americans will have drunk some 264 million cases during year , about 14 million cases more than in 2002 . lauds two-buck chuck_wines , which sells for $ 2 a bottle at trader joe 's food stores , and screw-top wine bottles .
 campaign finance records show 127 people are running for new_york_city council , large field of candidates for year in which no incumbents are stepping down . races are considered atypical because incumbents have served less than two years , apparently causing insurgent candidates to see them as vulnerable . while terms generally last four years , current terms are only for two to allow city to draw new council districts .
 pentagon orders five navy ships and eight maritime rescue teams to gulf_coast to bolster relief operations in aftermath of hurricane katrina , as worsening conditions overwhelm initial response . ships will carry food , fuel , medical and construction supplies and hovercraft for rescues . fema teams also on site . pres bush cuts short extended summer vacation to work in washington with task force coordinating efforts .
 renaissancere holdings , bermuda-based reinsurer that recently restated three years of earnings , discloses that sec has advised its chief executive , james_n_stanard , that he may soon face civil complaint . also says regulators have recommended filing of enforcement proceedings against michael w cash , senior vice president in renaissancere 's specialty reinsurance unit , who resigned on july 11 . cash left company after refusing to accept subpoena from sec seeking his testimony about company 's restatement .
 nicholas d kristof op-ed column says that while americans have opened their pockets to victims of tsunami in asia , they are otherwise stingy in their response to scourges that take more lives than 150,000 claimed by tsunami . notes that malaria kills 165,000 or more people each month , that aids kills 240,000 a month and that diarrhea kills 140,000 a month . says americans do not make up for low official aid with private charitable contributions .
 gov gray davis has made more than 260 appointments to judgeships and state commissions since california recall election was announced 10 weeks ago . appointments are part of concerted effort by davis to secure lasting democratic imprint on sacramento should republican candidate arnold_schwarzenegger be elected governor . many appointments require state_senate confirmation . since legislature is not in session , there is move for special session .
 labor department reports modest expansion of labor market in january , with addition of 146,000 new jobs . unemployment rate drops to three-year low of 5.2 percent . labor participation rate reaches 65.8 percent , lowest level since 1988 . number of discouraged workers -- those who have stopped looking for work -- rises to 515,000 , almost 20 percent increase over year ago .
 sen john_kerry campaigns in southern states that will hold democratic presidential primaries mar 9 , including texas and mississippi . charges pres bush resists federal probes into sept 11 , 2001 terror attacks and intelligence leading up to invasion of iraq . bush campaign spokesman holds administration cooperates . kerry details his minutely calibrated stand against gay marriage and for gay rights , meeting tougaloo , miss , that draws many white voters to historically black college .
 us seeks to persuade afghan emigres to return to their homeland and play leading role in revitalizing country 's weak central government . is providing millions of dollars to augment government salaries to lure skilled afghans home . ali ahmad_jalali , 62-year-old former afghan_army colonel and military scholar , who lived in washington for 20 years , has now returned to afghanistan to become interior minister and one of country 's most powerful men .
 second article in series anatomy of an alliance discusses strong evangelical christian support for israel and effect on bush administration 's foreign policy . white evangelicals make up about quarter of american electorate and large part of republican party base remains committed to fiercely pro-israel agenda that seems likely to have effect on policy choices . rev john_hagee , founder of christians_united for israel , says support for israel is ` god 's foreign policy ' . evangelicals see iranian pres mahmoud ahmadinejad as mortal threat and are wary of potential talks with iran to resolve iraq conflict . james_dobson likens such talks to appeasing hitler . rabbi yechiel_eckstein , israeli government 's goodwill ambassador to evangelicals , says ads on fox_television for his international fellowship of christians and jews drew 30,000 new donors . photo . evangelicals like hagee see israel as heralding second coming of christ while others hold more generally that god maintains covenant with jews and commands christians to help ` older brothers ' .
 jon_woods tells what he knew of his daughter catherine_woods 's life in new_york_city at murder trial of paul_cortez for 2005 slaying of catherine_woods . says he did not know of catherine_woods 's working as topless dancer until told so by cortez shortly before her death .
 suicide bomber rams his car into group of policemen waiting to collect their salaries west of ramadi , killing 12 people and wounding many others , in latest attack on iraq 's security forces . in baghdad , two american soldiers are killed and three wounded when roadside bomb detonates near convoy . in najaf , american and iraqi forces arrest deputy governor of province and 30 other iraqis and charge them with plotting to kill american-installed governor , adnan_zurfi .
 author michael_beschloss op-ed article notes that presidents do not win re-election as often as they used to . contends that televised debates have become powerful anti-incumbent weapon . maintains that gerald_ford , who was first incumbent president to open himself to debate , was first victim of tradition he started . says since 1976 , three incumbent presidents , ford , jimmy_carter and george_h_w_bush , have lost re-election . maintains that if latest polls on current race have any meaning , fourth defeated presiden t is distinct possibility .
 fierce clashes erupt between lebanese army soldiers and islamic_militant_group_fatah_al-islam near palestinian refugee camp in tripoli , in one of most significant challenges to army since end of lebanon 's bloody civil war . 22 lebanese soldiers and 17 militants are dead and dozens more are injured . confrontation raises fears of wider battle to rout militants in 12 other refugee camps , where radical islam has been gaining in recent years . syria , which lebanon accuses of backing fatah al-islam , closes several border crossings in area . fighting erupts as security council takes up resolution to try suspects tied to feb 2005 assassination of former lebanese prime min rafik hariri . syria has been accused in previous investigations of ordering killing , but vigorously denies any connection .
 article in series power play explains how electricity prices are increasing because nation 's network of transmission lines has not been maintained and expanded enough to meet growing demand . insufficient capacity forces utilities with efficient generating stations to buy from costlier plants . problem already affects about 40 million people in northeast and 18 million in southern_california and will also bring higher prices to new_england , san_francisco area and seattle-portland and phoenix-tucson corridors . example is chambersburg , pa , where rates have soared 31 percent this year . energy department estimates congestion charges add $ 8 billion to costs in eastern grid , almost $ 90 per person in new_york area last year . congestion frustrates those who supported deregulation . energy policy act of 2005 bars localities from blocking new transmission lines , but protests have erupted where they are planned .
 hewlett-packard co posts fiscal second-quarter earnings that beat wall street 's estimates despite continued weakness in technology spending . reports net income of $ 659 million compared with $ 252 million year earlier . revenue was $ 18 billion , down slightly from combined $ 18.2 bilion in quarter_year ago . chief executive carleton_s_fiorina says quarter represents strongest operating performance since company 's acquisition of compaq_computer -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 pres bush endorses defense sec donald h rumsfeld , in effort to quell widening criticism from six retired generals who have urged rumsfeld to resign . his statement is part of white_house effort to fend off criticism of handling of war in iraq . generals are weighing in as polls show support for war waning in election year . bush 's statement is followed by supportive comments from gen_richard_b_myers , retired chairman of joint_chiefs_of_staff , and gen tommy_r_franks , retired commander of wars in afghanistan and iraq . bush and rumsfeld photo .
 episode last month in norwalk , conn , in which two bicycle riders were injured , one seriously , exposed intricacies and technological challenges facing new_york metropolitan region 's enhanced 911 system as well as flaws in suffolk_county 's response to out-of-state 911 calls . 911 cell phone call made by fellow bicyclist adrienne_pincus was sent first to greenlawn , ny , then to yaphank , where authorities suggested she dial ` 0 ' to reach operator to connect her to 911 . suffolk authorities have since announced new policy in which cellphone calls from connecticut would be transferred to connecticut_state_police .
 gov george_e_pataki of new_york plans to block nearly $ 2 billion in spending and proposed tax cuts from budget passed in march by state legislature . budget is between $ 112.4 billion and $ 115.5 billion . pataki will use powers of office recently strengthened in court decisions that limit how much legislature can alter governor 's budget proposals and hold that executives do not have to enforce laws they deem illegal . will also use his veto power .
 mikhail_korenman , russian emigre , has brought his passion for chess to lindsborg , kan . he opened anatoly_karpov school of chess in 2003 , and it has already staged several important competitions . karpov , former world champion from russia , has visited lindsborg three times . us chess_federation_named_lindsborg as its chess city of year in 2004 , and it chose korenman as its chess organizer of year .
 hundreds of fossilized bones from 68-million-year-old dinosaur that paleontologist japheth_boyce and his team spent two years digging up in eastern_wyoming will be sold at bonhams_&_butterfields_auction_house in los_angeles in what is being billed as largest auction of natural history items . bones , which are about 20 percent of tyrannosaurus rex_skeleton , are expected to fetch at least $ 900,000 .
 increasingly bold , organized insurgency seizes offensive in iraq again , as suicide car bomb explodes outside police headquarters in baghdad , ripping into crowd of hundreds of young men seeking to join police . at least 47 people are killed and 114 wounded . guerrillas in baquba ambush police van , killing 11 officers and one civilian . second car bomb explodes in downtown baghdad near convoy of civilian contractors , although only bomber is killed . saboteurs blow up oil pipeline in bayji in north , causing widespread blackouts .
 us forces move into position for decisive battle with insurgents in falluja , pounding some of their remaining strongholds with airstrikes and repelling attempts by some fighters to shoot their way out . other insurgents seem resigned to making last stand . 22 us servicemen have been killed and 170 wounded in five days of fighting . iraqi government deploys national_guardsmen in mosul after hundreds of iraqi policemen fled in face of guerrilla uprising .
 southern california is no longer plagued by smog as it was from 1950 's through 1980 's , but goal of consistently healthy air for all 16 million people there remains out of reach . ozone pollution is improving , but region remains one of worst three in nation , along with houston and san_joaquin_valley in central_california . attention is now turning from ozone to diesel pollutants spewing from ships , locomotives and trucks that serve ports of los_angeles and long_beach . these pollutants have been newly linked to cancer and cardiovascular disease , and air quality authorities credited with bringing down ozone levels have far less power to control them .
 harvard_university announces that parents with incomes below $ 40,000 will no longer have to contribute to cost of education , while those earning $ 40,000 to $ 60,000 will make reduced contributions . is seeking to attract more students from low-income households . tuition is $ 26,066 per year , with other costs bringing it up to about $ 44,000 . harvard expects new program to cost $ 2 million and help 1,000 of 6,600 undergraduates . students will be expected to work summers and during school year .
 mexico 's finance_ministry has given final approval for bank wal-mart de mexico and says it will begin operating during second_half_of 2007 and be called banco_wal-mart_de_mexico_adelante . public opposition has all but killed wal-mart ` s plans to open its own bank in us . possible reason for different reception in mexico from that in us is that most mexicans do not have bank accounts and wal-mart plans to offer them opportunity to have one , making it hard for local activists to stir public outrage .
 thomas george inside the nfl_column_discusses_philadelphia_eagles , which will try to improve on 0-2 start against buffalo bills after bye week . nfl spokesperson greg_aiello says coaches can not lie about injuries during games , as denver_broncos coach mike_shanahan did about condition of quarterback jake_plummer . kansas_city chiefs running back priest holmes will start in next game despite rib and calf injuries .
 news that japan 's resona_holdings , one of country 's five big_bank_groups , will ask for infusion of up to 2 trillion yen -lrb- $ 17.3 billion -rrb- in tax money barely creates ripple . government is prepared to use its power to print money and rewrite regulations to guarantee that resona 's depositors and borrowers lose little if any money . bank 's poffices are operating normally , and most customers shrug off news that bank has one-third less capital than it had previously reported .
 navy contributes its nuclear research submarine to effort to identify 65-foot 19th-century shipwreck at bottom of gulf_of mexico , 30 miles off louisiana . ship lay under half-mile of water until exxonmobil bisected it with oil pipeline two years ago . marine archaeologists at texas a & m saw it as opportunity to use undersea technology uncover maritime history . with robotic submarines able to dive thousands of feet , treasures of shipwrecks are now well within reach .
 former new_york state senator guy j velella is released from prison after serving 182 days for bribery conspiracy . was released one time before , about three months into sentence , by obscure new_york_city mayoral panel , but was later ordered back to jail when it was determined the panel did not have authority to cut his sentence .
 major league baseball , reacting to congressional pressure , will toughen penalties for steroid use and establish for first time testing and penalties for using amphetamines . agreement mirrors what baseball commissioner bud_selig suggested to players union leader donald_fehr almost_seven_months_ago . union now agrees to reopen contract agreement . players who fail steroid test next season will be suspended 50 games , increased to 100 games for second offense and lifetime for third , although three-time offender could seek reinstatement after two years . first amphetamine offense will result in mandatory testing , second calls for 25-game suspension , third to 80-game suspension and fourth to discipline possibly including lifetime ban by commissioner . plan appears to stall drug-testing bill sponsored by sens_john_mccain and jim_bunning to cover all sports .
 controversial pesticide program in florida is hindering confirmation of epa nominee stephen_l_johnson . epa and american_chemistry_council_program , now suspended , offered low-income families in duval_county money to allow monitoring of pesticide effects on infants and toddlers . senators barbara_boxer and bill_nelson are opposing johnson , who is acting epa administrator , and calling for study to be abandoned permanently .
 guerrillas shoot down american helicopter outside falluja , killing 16 soldiers and wounding 20 others , in deadliest attack on american troops since united_states invaded iraq in mar . witnesses say second missile narrowly missed another helicopter . say missiles were fired from dense stand of palm trees . saddam hussein 's army had thousands of surface-to-air missiles . most have not been accounted for . depots near baghdad appear unguarded , allowing anyone to cart away materiel . american military officials say guerrillas regularly fire missiles at military planes at baghdad 's airport . most soldiers on downed helicopter were on their way to taking leaves outside iraq .
 oklahoma_city residents on both sides of divide over whether to seek death penalty for terry_l_nichols in 1995 bombing that killed 168 people comment on outcome of separate state trial that again spared him death sentence . trial took years to plan , months to hold and cost millions . c wesley_lane_iii , prosecutor at center of decision to try him , defends decision , phone interview .
 river sound development , lehman_brothers subsidiary , plans to build 248 upscale houses and 18-hole golf course on 1,000 cres of forest in old saybrook , conn . promises to give 483 acres to town and impose strict conservation rules on 59 additional acres . conservationists want parcel kept intact , arguing that it is largest unprotected coastal forest between connecticut_river and new_york_city .
 heather_zlotshewer , who ran devlin day care in queens where 7-month-old matthew_perilli suffocated under pile of toys , had been source of two complaints by parents , one about devlin and other about unlicensed center that she operated across street . it took city 12 days to investigate complaint about unlicensed center and five days to inspect devlin center , but such delays are norm and do not violate city policy . details of complaints noted . child advocates says system is long overdue for repairs .
 years of inadequate financing and maintenance have led to widespread disrepair that is imperiling collections at smithsonian institution , world 's largest museum complex . recent audit by government accountability office noted ` broad decline ' in its aging facilities and systems , posing ` serious long-term threat ' to its countless artifacts . smithsonian officials estimate it will take total of $ 2.3 billion over next nine years to solve most pressing problems . say congress 's slightly increased appropriations for fiscal_year 2006 , to $ 621.3 million from $ 615.2 million in 2005 , is not enough .
 pres bush travels to maine on earth day and announces new federal goal of expanding america 's wetlands in next five years , striking back at sen john_kerry 's attacks on his environmental record . kerry renews criticisms , saying bush is reversing stance to garner votes . charges underscore degree to which democrats are striving to make environment important campaign issue .
 bush administration proposes medicare rule that would shift about $ 700 million in payments from hospitals in new_york to those in nearby new jersey over next decade . hospitals get varying medicaid payments depending on labor costs in their metropolitan areas . boundaries would change under proposed rule , causing high labor costs in new_york_city and some suburbs to be averaged against lower costs in northeastern parts of new jersey .
 business owners see slim supply of affordable homes as main obstacle to long_island 's economic development . new_york state legislature has approved $ 25 million grant to long_island housing partnership , marked to help first-time buyers in nassau and suffolk counties by raising existing income cap for assistance from state and federal funds . money will now be available to people who earn 130 percent of median income and help with homes priced up to $ 450,000 . stephen and aimee_keegan are typical of beneficiaries of assistance . received total of about $ 35,000 for buying and renovating_house in levittown , and would otherwise have left long_island .
 federal judge_barbara s jones sentences scott_d_sullivan , former chief financial officer who acknowledged his leading role in worldcom 's $ 11 billion accounting fraud , to five years in prison . jones says sullivan would have faced substantial sentence had he not cooperated with government . federal prosecutors describe sullivan as crucial to conviction of his boss , bernard_j_ebbers , who , as worldcom 's founder and chief executive , was bigger target in government 's prosecution .
 white_house spokesman announces capture of riduan isamuddin , indonesian better known as hambali , most wanted terror suspect in southeast_asia . officials say he served as link between osama bin laden network and jemaah islamiyah , indonesian terror group suspected of carrying out bombings in bali and jakarta . say isamuddin , one of few non-arabs in bin laden 's inner circle , has been connected to some of al_qaeda 's most notorious terrorist acts . indonesian and american officials say he was captured in thailand in operation by central_intelligence_agency .
 rutgers university president richrd_l_mccormick , after months of denials , admits that he had affair with subordinate during his seven years as president of university_of_washington , and that it had been factor in his decision to leave seattle for rutgers a year ago . rutgers board of governors chmn gene o'hara says board supports mccormick . mccormick 's wife , prof suzanne_d_lebsock , is historian who has taught at universities where her husband has worked .
 food and drug_administration approves first hiv test that uses saliva rather than blood and delivers results in 20 minutes . orasure technologies , company that developed test , is not yet seeking right to sell it over the counter . orasure pres michael_gausling says test is over 99 percent accurate and offers no risk of transmission . dr anthony_s_fauci , prominent aids researcher , praises new test . his photo .
 new_york_city_department_of_environmental_protection , which is bound by consent agreement with new_york state to refit four east_river sewage treatment plants with nitrogen-reducing technology for $ 1.3 billion , says it can achieve same result for only $ 300 million over ten years using more efficient technologies . dep commissioner christopher_ward wants to have broader debate about what is being achieved by nitrogen-cutting efforts . effect of nitrogen pollution in long_island sound discussed .
 hurricane ivan spares cuba the worst of its fury , skirting western tip of island before lurching toward mexico , then returning to its slow , fearsome path to united_states_gulf_coast . residents from big bend of florida to louisiana coast prepare for what is now classified as category 5 hurricane , unnerved by televised images of destruction from storm and memories of past hurricanes . at least 68 people have been killed in venezuela , grenada , jamaica and cayman_islands .
 gen dan_k_mcneil , who served as commander of united states-led coalition forces in afghanistan from 2002 to 2003 , takes over command of 35,000-member nato_force there from departing british commander , ahead of expected spring offensive by resurgent taliban . he inherits force that has expanded its mission to cover all of afghanistan and is still struggling to contain taliban . transfer of command comes on day when nato forces use airstrike to kill taliban commander mullah_abdul_ghafoor , who seized control of town of musa_qala in helmand province last week .
 despite statistics indicating decreasing rate of unemployment in greater new_york area , some key industries actually suffered job losses in period from jan-nov , 2003 , and most recent new_york state figures show that unemployment in city proper actually increased to 7.9 percent in dec 2003 from 7.7 percent in nov . employers , employees and union officials say inconsistencies and contradictions in hiring abound .
 nicholas wood analysis contends that as belgrade girds for funeral of slobodan_milosevic , vision that he used to propel himself to power also appears to be dead . holds that he waved banner of greater serbia , which would unite serbs across crumbling yugoslavia , but serbian-inhabited areas in bosnia and croatia are long separated from government in belgrade , after deaths of close to 250,000 people in balkan wars of 1990 's .
 credit suisse group reports 2002 loss of 3.3 billion swiss francs -lrb- $ 2.4 billion -rrb- , and co-chief executive oswald_grubel calls results ` unacceptable ' . says assets under management fell by 16.4 percent , including net outflow of 2.6 billion swiss francs -lrb- $ 1.9 billion -rrb- . assets under management at credit_suisse first boston fell by 21.3 billion francs -lrb- $ 15.7 billion -rrb- . credit suisse says it will eliminate 1,250 more jobs to try to get back to profitability .
 mexico 's economic outlook discussed . economy , heavily dependent on sputtering united_states economy , shrank 0.3 percent in 2001 and is expected to have grown just over 1 percent in 2002 . government targets modest growth of 3 percent for 2003 . continued anemic growth will worsen mexico 's social inequities . economic reforms pres vicente fox seeks to spur growth are stuck in congress .
 rev al sharpton declares success in new_york , despite single-digit primary showings around country , but says he is deciding whether to continue as presidential aspirant or try to leverage his few gains into voice in sen john_kerry 's campaign . new york voters support kerry overwhelmingly , giving him 60 percent to 20 percent for sen john_edwards and eight percent for sharpton . photos . sharpton gets about 40 percent of black vote and less than 10 percent of hispanic vote .
 pietro_barberi , 24 , resigns as senior accountant for yonkers , ny , school district after his hiring on oct 20 touches off public outcry and calls for independent investigation . school officials say barberi , 24 , was qualified for $ 90,100-a - year job , even though he had only about two years of professional accounting experience , was not certified public accountant and had not taken his civil service examination . they deny rumors that barberi was romantically involved with daughter of schools supt angelo_petrone .
 americans give estimated $ 240.92 billion to charity in 2002 , only 0.5 percent decrease on inflation-adjusted basis from previous year , despite uncertain economy , international turmoil , increased unemployment and other factors that one would expect to damping contributions . figure is 2.3 percent of nation 's gross domestic product . charitable contributions by corporations and corporate foundations rise 8.8 percent for year , to $ 12.19 billion .
 director stephen_chow movie kung fu hustle is top-grossing foreign film in united_states at $ 17.1 million and only 1 of 10 to cross $ 1 million mark in 2005 , illustrating declining fortunes of foreign-language film industry . success several years ago of ang lee movie crouching tiger , hidden dragon suggested that foreign films might be on upswing , but this has not been borne out as such films struggle to find american distribution .
 sir peter_hall , perennial of british theater , gathers in central london theater with two of his children , rebecca , 20 , and edward , 36 , to commemorate first time they have all been working concurrently on london stage . rebecca_hall is fifth of six children that sir peter , now 72 , has had with four wives .
 profile of and interview with first-time filmmaker vadim_perelman , who was born in kiev , lived in destitution with is mother outside rome and on streets of edmonton , alberta , as teen . perelman , 40 , describes his hard life and his film , house of sand and fog . film , based on novel by andre_dubus 3rd , is about troubled california woman , played by jennifer_connelly , who loses her house to iranian ex-colonel , played by ben_kingsley .
 many visitors to this year 's art basel_miami_beach , four day art fair , will flock to see designs of chad_oppenheim , local architect who is attracting attention for retooling of miami modernism . with roughly 20 residential buildings in various stages , he has garnered praise for creating cool , almost monastic design esthetic that is in stark contract to miami 's previous architectural excesses .
 article on portland home of steven_lofton and roger_croteau , who are raising five foster children born to hiv-positive mothers . interview . photos . lofton and croteau , pediatric nurses , moved family to oregon after florida refused to allow adoption of one boy who tested hiv-negative , which made him eligible for adoption . florida bars adoptions by homosexuals , although case is still in courts .
 american homeowners have made trillion-dollar bet that mortgage rates will remain near record lows for at least few more years . economists worry that bet could turn bad with some interest rates already rising . deutsche bank analysis shows only about $ 80 billion , or 1 percent of mortgage debt this year will switch to adjustable rate based largely on prevailing interest rates . some $ 300 billion of mortgage debt will be similarly adjusted in 2006 . portion will soar in 2007 , with $ 1 trillion of nation 's mortgage debt -- or about 12 percent of it -- switching to adjustable payments . economists predict impact will not likely derail economy on its own , but it will probably slow growth .
 internal revenue service , as part of crackdown on abusive tax shelters , has been pressing action against accounting firm grant_thornton_to_force it to disclose names of clients it advised to shelter millions of tax dollars in roth_ira 's via shell corporations . shelter client william_c_ross filed lawsuit against grant thornton and smaller accounting firm , raymond_creal , in june 2002 , saying two firms sold him bogus roth_ira shelter that violated federal and state tax laws , committed accounting malpractice and breached their fiduciary duties . grant thornton 's prospectus says use of shell corporation owned by roth can shelter more than $ 3,500 annual limit to roths . diagram .
 cbs announces it has obtained exclusive interview between ed_bradley and michael_jackson for 60 minutes , which will air on december 28 . says jackson , in interview , denies charges of child molestation . says jackson still believes it is acceptable to sleep with children . says michael_jackson television special canceled after charges were filed will be broadcast on january 2 .
 mark levine article on deal that brought 30 stringed instruments from 17th and 18th centuries , including 13 by stradivarius , to new_jersey_symphony_orchestra . deal , which cost orchestra $ 18 million , is said to be worth upwards of $ 55 million , though some claim that is inflated estimate . deal was engineered and partly financed by herbert_axelrod , who , from childhood , was enchanted with violin . profile .
 general electric company reports its 2006 earnings were up 11 percent , helped by strong performance in several units . investors respond negatively due to quality of earnings and accounting issues . fourth-quarter earnings were $ 6.6 billion , up 12 percent from year earlier . full-year earnings were $ 20.7 billion . revenue rose 10 percent from 2005 , to $ 163.4 billion . chairman jeffrey_r_immelt comments .
 frank rich article on alarmed response of bush administration to news coverge of families of 9/11 and apparent loss of journalist bob_woodward 's support for war in iraq during recent 60 minutes interview . suggests differences in news coverage of vietnam and iraq wars may be primary cause of public 's disenchantment with action in iraq . says as a media event , iraq is not vietnam because this time families of victims of 9/11 or families of soldiers fighting in iraq are more vocal .
 bush administration says that clandestine network created by abdul_qadeer_khan , pakistani nuclear scientist , netted $ 100 million for technology sold to libya alone . high-speed centrifuges and other advanced materiel that khan marketed to libya , as well as to other countries , are now stored at oak_ridge_national_laboratory . photo . energy sec_spencer_abraham_trumpets_administration success in getting muammar el-qaddafi to disarm .
 bbc reporter andrew_gilligan says at inquiry into death of dr david_kelly , scientist and former arms inspector who was source of bbc report implicating prime min tony_blair 's aide alastair_campbell in exaggerating iraqi threat of chemical , biological and nuclear arms , that he stands by report . second bbc journalist , susan_watts , corroborates gilligan 's account of kelly 's views .
 michael_natale and other real estate developers in new jersey complain about recently passed highland protection and planning act , which protects watershed in northeren part of state . say law reduces value of their land and that they are shouldering disproportionate share of environmental burden . seek fair compensation . law protects 859,000 acres . region supplies water to more than 5 million people , 65 percent of state 's residents , and some of state 's largest employers .
 article on nat_turner , who led bloodiest slave revolt in us history and was hanged on november 11_, 1831 , in jerusalem , va . turner is subject of new pbs documentary film , nat_turner : a troublesome property and several new books , including the rebellious slave : nat_turner in american memory by historian scot_french .
 clifford_ross , artist and businessman , has invented new camera that has captured , with astonishing clarity , photographs of tiny footpath atop colorado 's mount_sopris from seven miles away . ross is meeting with dozen scientists at new_york_university , organized by ross and scientists at sandia_national_laboratories in new mexico , which specializes in matters pertaining to nuclear weapons and national security threats .
 pentagon and state_dept are split over role for iraqi_national_congress leader ahmad_chalabi in restructured iraqi government . chalabi is in southern_iraq under pentagon auspices . state sees him as divisive figure and predicts that , after years in exile , he will attract little popular support among iraqis . controversy is familiar to chalabi , who is one of saddam_hussein 's most tenacious and longstanding opponents . state dept and cia officials consider him erratic and egomaniacal with potential to destabilize not only iraq but entire region . profile .
 campaign finance reports have led to second-guessing about whether national_republican_senatorial_committee borrowed too little for its final all-out push for its candidates . committee raised $ 87 million since election cycle began in 2005 and ended up about $ 1.2 million in debt . democratic senatorial campaign committee raised $ 119 million and ended up $ 5.4 million in debt .
 new_york guitar festival will open three-week 2006 season with in-sequence performance of bruce_springsteen 1982 album nebraska . musicians including michelle shocked , meshell_ndegeocello , mark_eitzel and band national will perform entire album at free concert . festival includes more than two dozen concerts , seminars and other events at sites around city .
 newton_project , joint effort based at university_of_london , aims to gradually post all of sir isaac_newton 's previously unpublished work on web site , including thousands of pages of alchemical and theological writings . material , which may take 15 to 20 years to finish transcribing , will be accompanied by high-resolution images of manuscripts . science historian mordechai_feingold says even though newton is famous for his work in math and physics , he did not compartmentalize himself and having complete works available is best way to understand him .
 prospect of nbc_universal 's acquisition of live-action film business of its longtime partner dreamworks_skg prompts speculation about extent of steven_spielberg 's role in nbc universal-owned dream works . insiders have privately called spielberg 's involvement an essential reason for any buyer 's interest in dreamworks . spielberg has signaled that he wants to working with dreamworks while remaining free to work with other studios . nbc_universal will also have to accept that when spielberg works there , he will insist on pricing levels he has established in recent years .
 suzanne_helen has purchased two manhattan condos for her daughter , 23 , one in tribeca for $ 5.75 million from joanne_corzine and one uptown for $ 4.17 million . seeks to rent tribeca apartment . jacob n wohlstadter closed on his $ 4.28 million manhattan apartment four days after being sued for allegedly misappropriating funds used for down payment and other luxury purchases from joint venture with bioveris_corp . bioveris later said it was reimbursed , but still later filed another suit against him .
 real madrid , which was named club of 20th century by soccer 's international governing body , has won more laurels than any other soccer_club in world , but only since 2000 has it begun to turn sporting triumph into business glory . after years in red , new president , florentino_perez , has turned business operation around , and real madrid is now thought to be world 's richest soccer club , overtaking english premier league giant manchester_united .
 profile of and interview with martin_robins , director of voorhees_transportation_center at bloustein_school_of_planning and public policy at rutgers . robins maintains that new jersey 's transportation network is headed for calamity unless gov james_mcgreevey and legislature find resources for capital projects involving bridges , roads and mass transit .
 virginia judge_jane_marum_roush orders change of venue for trial of lee_malvo , 18-year-old charged in sniper shootings that terrorized washington , dc , area last fall . cites defendant 's right to fair trial . proceedings will move from fairfax , a washington suburb , to chesapeake , 160 miles to southeast . malvo faces capital murder charges in oct 14 killing of linda_franklin in falls church .
 penthouse owned by family of samuel_h_kress at 83rd st and fifth ave is on market for over $ 50 million , challenging record for highest price of prewar manhattan co-op . town house on west 73rd st once owned by dr edward_j_hornick is to be auctioned off in march for estimated price of $ 7 million . gwyneth paltrow and husband chris_martin buy three-bedroom penthouse condominium at river lofts in tribeca for just over $ 5 million .
 final employment report before nov 2 election shows employment grew by less than 100,000 in september . unemployment rate remains unchanged at 5.4 percent because some 200,000 people stopped looking for work . white_house hails figure as evidence of continued employment expansion , saying it validates pres bush 's pursuit of tax cuts to support economic recovery . sen john_kerry points to 1.6 million jobs lost under bush . many economists argue that president can have only little influence on job creation , but economy remains pivotal issue in election .
 crude oil prices surge to record highs amid conflicting signals from russia about embattled oil giant yukos . russian authorities rescind offer made day earlier to allow yukos to use its frozen bank accounts to finance day-to-day operations . renewed concerns over loss of around 1.7 million barrels a day of yukos production prompts surge in oil prices .
 environmental working group reports that about 20 percent of mineral wealth of american_west is claimed by foreign companies , most of them canadian . also says that of all uses of federal lands , hard-rock mining returns least to federal_treasury : 2.3 percent of sales , compared with 13.2 percent for oil and gas development , 14 percent for grazing and 66 percent for timber sales .
 european central bank raises interest rates for second time in three months . hints at more increases . president jean-claude_trichet notes benchmark rate of 2.5 percent is still low even with quarter-point raise . economists consider 3 percent to 3.5 percent normal level for short-term interest rates , which implies one or two further increases in future .
 congress gave two decommissioned coast_guard cutters in 1998 to faith-based group that sold ships instead of using them to provide medical services . gift to canvasback missions was one of 900 grants that congress has made to faith-based organizations since 1987 through use of earmarks that are added to bills to bypass normal government review . process has caused accusations of political favoritism . can also result in grants that never achieve their intended purpose .
 op-ed article by tom_andersen scores connecticut legislature for backing off from its commitment to help clean up long_island sound by slashing funds for sewage plant improvements . notes new_york , on other hand , has become tortoise that might reach nitrogen reduction goal of 58.5 percent first . calls on connecticut_general_assembly to reach agreement with governor to restore clean water fund .
 cerberus_capital_management 's attempt to buy controlling interest in chrysler is logical culmination of automotive strategy it has pursued for years . two of its top executives , david_w_thursfield and wolfgang_bernhard , both once worked in automotive industry . if cerberus succeeds , it will be first time that automaker has been outside control of another major automotive company .
 senior members of senate foreign relations committee say they are deeply concerned that elements of pakistan 's government are helping to undermine stability of afghanistan , including possibility that they are sheltering taliban fighters along border . say they do not believe pres pervez_musharraf of pakistan is involved in destabilizing activity . also raise concern that iran is assisting warlord ismail_khan in western afghanistan .
 gap introduces piperlime.com , which will sell shoes from 150 brands featuring thousands of footwear styles . web site will compete directly with category pioneer zappos , which expects sales to reach $ 600 million this year , up from $ 370 million last year . gap will make sharp departure from traditional private-label strategy by selling other companies ' merchandise . analysts believe venture will be successful due to gap 's knowledge of their customers but may not significantly effect struggling retailer 's bottom line . gap direct president toby_c_lenk comments .
 gov james e mcgeevey signs legislation that will establish state-supported stem cell research facility in new jersey . legislation specifically forbids cloning . stem cell_institute_of_new_jersey will be run jointly by rutgers_university and university_of_medicine and dentistry of new jersey . mcgreevey proposes $ 6.5 million in budget for institute .
 united_airlines says it has cut unrestricted fares on direct flights out of chicago and denver and on thousands of connecting flights in smaller markets . move signals willingness to experiment with lower fares for business travelers . many walk-up fares with no restrictions have been reduced by 40 percent , with some cuts as much as 60 percent . american_airlines and continental_airlines have moved to match united 's lower fares .
 diary written by albert_einstein 's last girlfriend johanna_fantova details scientist 's musings , opinions and complaints over last year and half of his life . it was found by librarians in feb 2003 in firestone library at princeton_university . fantova , who was 22 years younger than einstein , was former curator of maps in library . diary amounts to sort of portrait of genius as old man and portrays him as almost ordinary . einstein died in april 1955 at age 76 . fantova died in 1981 at age 80 .
 brokers in new jersey say recent ruling by state_supreme_court conferring full marital benefits on gay and lesbian unions will likely increase number of gay home buyers . jaan_henry , who runs national_referral_service for those wanting to relocate to gay-friendly communities , says she has seen recent flurry of inquiries about new jersey towns . notes that ruling may not impact many essex county towns , like montclair , maplewood and south_orange , already known as very ` gay family friendly ' .
 news analysis says white_house and congress seem headed for confrontation over justice_dept dismissal of eight us attorneys and possibility of invocation of executive privilege by new_white_house counsel fred f fielding . bush administration has few equals in its commitment to broad conception of executive authority . even though legal concept has been in use for more than 200 years , its scope remains largely unsettled .
 heating contractor christopher link sees ` cover-up ' in patricia_rowland 's belated payment of $ 5,680 for work he had done at gov john_rowland 's vacation cottage four years earlier . testifies at house_committee hearing considering impeachment . photo . rowland aides peter_n_ellef and lawrence_e_alibozek , who refuse to testify , had already paid bill . electrician ron_shortell says his 1997 work was paid for by rowland in 2003 .
 two 28-story condominiums are planned for waterside site of east_river_tennis_club in long_island_city , queens . are part of $ 350 million plan by vernon_realty to turn club into residential enclave of 910 units . avalon bay communities and rock rose development are each building one rental building at neighboring queens_west_development , one_31 stories and the other between 32 and 39 stories .
 conrad m black is indicted in chicago on charges that he and three former colleagues stole $ 51.8 million from hollinger_international . indictment charges that black and his co-defendants worked out plan to divert funds to themselves and misused corporate money . arrest warrant is issued for black , and there are reports he is in canada . us atty patrick_j_fitzgerald refuses comment on black 's whereabouts . other former executives charged are john a boultbee , peter_atkinson and mark_kipnis . black 's lawyer says his client is innocent .
 bush administration , despite suspicions that iran is involved in conflict between israel and hezbollah , has stopped short of accusing iran of inciting crisis . us is bogged down in iraq , and it lacks means and political support to engage in another conflict in region . administration finds itself relying on israel to cripple hezbollah and on un and ad hoc alliance of european nations , china and russia to try to rein in tehran 's nuclear program .
 pres bush warns that casualties in iraq could increase over summer as us completes its troop buildup there . remark seen reflecting deep concern at white_house that intense summer of fighting and higher casualties could further undermine support for war and lead democrats to take harder line in future legislative clashes over how to proceed in iraq . bush expresses satisfaction with deal in congress that would finance american operations in iraq and afghanistan without schedule for withdrawal from iraq that democrats had sought .
 wal-mart_stores_inc halts sales of maxim , stuff and fhm , men 's magazines that feature mix of scantily clad starlets and bawdy humor but go to some lengths to avoid being labeled as pornography . wal-mart has been under pressure from christian groups in past over its distribution of various magazines . spokeswoman melissa_berryhill comments . stephen_colvin , president of dennis_publishing_usa , which owns maxim and stuff , says wal-mart accounts for less than 3 percent of copies company sells at newsstands . maxim , stuff and fhm have combined circulation of almost five million . officials at fhm , which is owned by emap_plc , says wal-mart has right to make product decision , but disagrees with decision .
 on stage and off column : producers fran and barry_weissler are planning 2004 productions of sweet charity , the blue angel , drama based on movie by peter_parnell and steven_trask , and revival of pal joey directed by robert_altman . also express interest in transferring lisa_loomer 's drama living out from second stage to broadway . press agent chris_boneau denies rumors that take me out will close at beginning of 2004 . if it does , it would be second consecutive year that tony award winner for best new play did not turn profit . primary stages , in coup , casts isabella_rossellini and frank_langella in terrence_mcnally 's stendhal syndrome , which will inaugurate its new theater on east 59th street in january .
 jane e brody personal health column discusses food-handling safety in personal kitchen . journal of the american dietetic assn reports that foodborne diseases cause estimated 76 million illnesses , 325,000 hospitalizations and 5,000 deaths in united_states each year . study by janet_b_anderson , utah_state_university affiliated dietitian , finds that in many kitchens hand washing and surface cleaning are inadequate to prevent disease . four steps to ensure safe food handling , discussed .
 author scott_atran op-ed article contends that two unlikely factors -- maneuverings of hamas , group us considers chief sponsor of terrorism , and widespread fear of chaos among palestinians -- are combining to create some hope in runup to election to choose yasir_arafat 's successor as head of palestinian authority . holds that best news is that mahmoud_abbas , arafat 's successor as leader of fatah faction , has emerged as candidate favored not only by israel and us , but also by european_union and hamas 1 .
 new_york lawmakers warn state could lose up to $ 1 billion in federal money if congress approves transportation bill that allocates payments by gas-tax revenues . new_york , relying heavily on mass transit , now gets more transportation money than it pays in gas taxes but states like florida and texas seek to change formula . repr jerrold_nadler decries punishing states for using energy more efficiently .
 deputy chancelor carmen_farina steps down as top instructional official in new_york_city public schools and force behind mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's remaking of education system . farina 's chief of staff , andres_alonso , will succeed her . laura_kotch , farina 's right-hand aide , also resigns . chancellor joel_i_klein 's communications director , stephen_morello , sumbmits his resigantion . will be replaced by julia_levy : several top aides in education dept have left since january .
 india and china sign joint declaration in which india emphasizes that tibet is part of china and china agrees to begin trading with india 's northeastern_state_of_sikkim . prime min atal bihari_vajpayee says his meeting with chinese leaders in beijing will lead to stable , enduring and forward-looking ties of friendship .
 bush administration says it would send 55,000 tons of food to north_korea this year , even as other american officials press ahead with plans to deprive north of hard currency if there is no progress in efforts to end its nuclear weapons program . food aid is announced as china , south_korea , japan , russia and us try to lure north back to talks that havebeen stalled for year .
 federal judge_leonie_m_brinkema convicts three american muslims of conspiring to help pakistani group wage ` violent jihad ' against indian forces in kashmir and possibly against us troops in afghanistan . finds explanations incredible and harshly dismisses defense arguments in case involving lashkar-e-taiba . muslim groups object . atty gen john_ashcroft praises verdict and announces new indictment in idaho against sami_omar_al-hussayen , saudi graduate student charged with aiding hamas .
 article on large number of russian and central asian companies , buoyed by boom in energy and commodities , that are making initial public offerings on london_stock_exchange . exchange is poised to grab most of nearly 100 planned listings from russia in 2006 , surpassing new_york_stock_exchange . listings for companies in russia , kazakhstan and china have already generated hundreds of millions of dollars in fees for london 's big banks . rash of new money is prompting concerns over london 's listing requirements , which are less stringent than in us .
 sen john_kerry has not made any real headway in polls despite pres bush 's dip in popularity . part of problem is his lack of support among white men . recent new_york_times_/_cbs_news poll showed that kerry has support of only 36 percent of white male voters , compared with 55 percent for bush .
 pressures on white_house to regain upper hand appear to be mounting on eve of vice-presidential debate , with polls showing pres bush has lost ground after his debate with sen john_kerry . to that end , bush flies to iowa , one of most closely contested states , to sign into law extensions of three popular middle-class tax cuts that he says kerry opposed , charge kerry campaign denies .
 pres bush offer pakistan $ 3 billion in aid during meeting with gen pervez_musharraf at camp david , md , but conditions it on continued cooperation in battling terrorism and permanent end to assisting north korean nuclear program . praises musharraf for working to build modern pakistan that is tolerant and prosperous . bush 's aides are concerned that musharraf 's promises to democratize pakistan are moving slowly at best and that his political support is eroding .
 general_motors_corp says it will contribute most of proceeds from $ 13.1 billion bond issue to its retirement plans later this year . gm will end up with gain -- small oen for 2003 -- because pension contribution will be close to end of year . transactions will increase gm 's profits by about $ 200 million before taxes in 2004 , compared with net income of $ 1.7 billion last year -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 howard dean says he will end his presidential bid if he fails to win democratic primary in wisconsin on feb 17 . makes announcement in stark e-mail message to supporters after string of defeats . his advisers express optimism that he would get his candidacy on track in wisconsin and emerge as chief alternative to sen john_kerry , who has won seven of first nine democratic contests . party strategists wonder how much dean would gain from wisconsin victory after so many losses . they expect kerry to win contests this weekend in michigan , maine and perhaps washington state . fight in wisconsin is shaping up as perhaps last big battle of 2004 democratic nomination campaign . aides to kerry , dean and sen john_edwards and gen wesley_k_clark say they are preparing full-scale campaigns to win that state .
 lawyer for three siblings arrested in connection with death of dana_blake , bouncer at lower_east_side_nightclub , guernica , were not carrying weapons and had nothing to do with killing . jonathan and ching chan , and their sister , ngan_ling_chan , are released after more than 24 hours in custody because manhattan dist atty declines to prosecute them . police say blake was killed during scuffle when he tried to enforce city 's new ban on smoking .
 senate_intelligence_committee report provides comprehensive review of what went wrong in now-discredited central intelligence agency 2001 report that iraq was seeking to buy uranium from niger to build nuclear bombs . pres bush included claim in his 2003 state of the union address despite doubts . senate reports finds cia failed to aggressively probe matter and allowed claims into intelligence reports to policy makers and bush 's speech shortly before war without proper vetting .
 central intelligence agency is refusing to provide hundreds of thousands of documents sought by nazi war crimes and japanese imperial government interagency working group under 1998 law requiring full disclosure of records related to nazi war criminals . has provided more than 1.2 million documents , but is using narrow interpretation of law to rebuff additional requests . law allows agency heads to exempt from release nine categories of national_security_information after submission of report to congressional_committee , which cia has not done .
 long island voters , in year that was supposed to mark reform of new_york_state_legislature , turn out in large numbers to return most incumbents to office by wide margins . only exception is close race between eight-term republican veteran james_conte and democratic challenger david_needham in 10th assembly district . charles_lavine , backed by nassau_county executive thomas_suozzi 's fix albany_political_committee , wins assembly seat by almost 2-to-1 margin over republican phillip_sciarillo . senate candidate charles_brisbane , another fix albany candidate , loses to four-term republican incumbent sen carl_marcellino .
 state dept report finds that number of insurgent attacks on civilians in iraq skyrocketed in 2005 , resulting in almost 8,300 deaths and accounting for more than 50 percent of those killed in terrorist attacks worldwide . overall tally of about 3,500 terrorist attacks in iraq represented nearly one-third of such attacks around world .
 urban tactics article on petrel , sailing ship skippered by nick_van nes that plied new_york_city waters from 1972 until van nes retired to martha 's vineyard in 2000 . former volunteer crew member thomas_berton , who prospered as real estate and retail entrepreneur , now owns double-masted schooner shearwater , which is docked at north_cove_marina in battery_park_city , which he hires out for day sails .
 federal judge_loretta_a_preska denies bail to abdulrahman_farhane , brooklyn bookseller accused of sending funds to terrorist organizations in middle_east to purchase arms and equipment . government presents substantial evidence against him and co-defendants tarik_shah , rafiq_sabir and mahmud faruq . prosecutors say that ` confidential source ' mohamed alanssi first identified farhane to fbi in 2001 as having radical views of islam .
 senate republican leaders offer plan that would suspend taxes on stock dividends for three years , but acknowledge that it will be struggle even to get plan through senate_finance_committee . house_ways_and_means_committee , taking different approach , adopts along strict party lines plan that would reduce but not eliminate tax on dividends and lower tax on capital gains to 15 percent . pres bush says congress is moving in right direction on his tax cut plan .
 lawyers for martin_tankleff will ask court to court vacate his conviction in 1988 murder of his parents , arlene and seymour_tankleff , in belle terre , li . will cite new evidence obtained by former new_york_city homicide detective that they say points to jerry_steuerman , seymour_tankleff 's estranged business point , as real culprit . district attorney 's office promises to conduct fair and comprehensive investigation into claims .
 exhibition gothic nightmares : fuseli , blake and the romantic imagination at tate_britain is exploration of world of fantasy , mysticism , horror and sexual perversity that found expression in art and literature in britain between 1770 and 1830 . centerpiece of show is painting the nightmare by henry_fuseli , which caused controversy at royal_academy exhibition in 1782 .
 news analysis : ouster of prime min jose_maria_aznar 's center-right party in spain in wake of terrorist bombing that may be linked to al_qaeda is electoral rebuke of one of pres bush 's most steadfast allies in iraq war . puts bush administration in position of fighting perception that acts of terror can sway allies into rethinking wisdom of standing too closely with united_states .
 howard dean vows to continue bid for presidency , even after campaign chairman steven_grossman defects to john_kerry and despite projected defeat in wisconsin primary . dean , kerry and john_edwards criss-cross wisconsin , with edwards also declaring he will not quit race and saying he looks forward to two-way contest with kerry going into heavy schedule of primaries in early march . kerry plans coast-to-coast tour . tells huge crowd in wausau that pres bush has already started attack ads and he welcomes challenge . dean to return to vermont after day veering between defiance and doubt . photos . aides suggest he should keep name on ballot and raise money on internet for other democrats .
 article on changes in hamptons ' television market which might make east_hampton 's industrial park regional television production center . east hampton studios , public access televsion station founded four years ago by frazer_dougherty , is about $ 4 million in red and recently became headquarters to hamptons ' second commercial television station , plum tv . local television -lrb- ltv -rrb- , public-access station dougherty helped start 20 years ago , rents space to wvvh , region 's first commercial station .
 dr david_brailer , appointed us health information technology coordinator in may , expresses disappointment , in interview , that modest $ 50 million request for office budget was eliminated when congress approved huge federal spending bill . newt gingrich , founder of center for health transformation , health_policy_group , blames bush administration , proponent of modernizing nation 's health care system , for not funding office .
 worldcom names five new members to reorganized board of directors , to join current four-member board upon company 's emergence from bankruptcy proceedings . newly-named members are david_matlin , eric h holder jr , judith_r_haberkorn , w grant_gregory and laurence_e_harris . company will name between one and three additional board members in coming months .
 article on new architectural movement in which well-known architects , best known for signature museums and concert halls , are designing aesthetically-pleasing waste-water treatment plants , incinerators and other public works . focuses on steven_holl 's new water filtration plant near new_haven , conn , newtown creek wastewater treatment plant in greenpoint , brooklyn , designed by richard_olcott and incinerator plant in hiroshima , japan , designed by yoshio_taniguchi .
 sec of state_colin_l_powell reportedly has pressed cia for several months to account for faulty intelligence that powell cited in telling un that iraq definitely possessed illicit weapons , specifically mobile biological laboratories . cia and bush administration , except for vice pres cheney , have since backed away from assertions based primarily on iraqi_national_congress defector known as ` curveball ' . powell reportedly was never warned about concerns that sources were fabricating evidence .
 new_york_city transit officials michael_a_lombardi and keith_j_hom tell city_council_transportation_committee that plan begun in 1992 to computerize subway signal system could take 35 to 40 years to complete . committee members excoriate their handling of recent fire that paralyzed service on a and c trains .
 atty gen eliot_spitzer , candidate for governor of new_york , attacks gov george e pataki 's budget proposals , saying state will be left with large future deficits , squandered surplus and ballooning problems , including medicaid . his rival for democratic nomination , nassau_county exec thomas_r_suozzi , says spitzer is failing to take on medicaid fraud and reform . both men appeared with two republican candidates , william_weld and john_faso , at conference held by citizens_budget_commission in armonk , ny . photos .
 reporter 's notebook : pres nicolas_sarkozy of france , newest addition to small club of leaders who make up group of 8 , emerged from his meeting with pres bush to greet press -- sans bush , who reportedly was feeling ill . bush did not seem quite sure of body language protocol when he saw chancellor angela_merkel on summit 's first day . international press corps had trouble covering summit because security in heilgendamm , germany , was so intense .
 new_york state comptroller alan_hevesi , who is sole fiduciary for $ 120 million new_york_state common retirement fund and managed to get j p morgan to agree to pay $ 2 billion settlement in worldcom case , has been acting a lot like sort of activist lawyer that congress tried to put of out of business in 1995 when it passed private securities litigation reform act . hevesi is rewriting legal playbook . not only did he wrest from worldcom 's investment banks $ 6 billion settlement for investors , he also forced company 's former directors to pay $ 24.5 million out of their own pockets . hevesi has ruffled legal community by seeking to reduce fees that lawyers charge , leaving investors with higher percentage of total settlement . hevesi is not a lawyer .
 judge michael l d ' amico finds james_c_kopp guilty of second-degree murder in fatal shooting of dr barnett a slepian , amherst , ny , obstetrician who performed abortions . kopp will be sentenced on may 9 to minimum of 15 years to life in prison and maximum of 25 years to life . still faces federal charges in slepian 's killing .
 pres bush says united_states is making ` good progress ' in iraq , news conference , crawford , tex . cites efforts to upgrade nation 's infrastructure . white_house releases report asserting american-led occupation has improved lives of iraqi citizens and safety and security of rest of world . report seeks to counter months of american deaths and increasingly grim news from baghdad .
 dave_kehr at the movies column : czech film director vladimir_michalek comments on his new film , autumn_spring , and working with its star , famed czech actor vlastimil_brodsky . steven_rosenbaum , director of 2002 documentary movie seven days in september , comments on decision to broadcast it on a & e on september 4 , week before second anniversary of attack on world trade center .
 people of st-pierre_island , miles from canada , are happy to live on only territory france has left in north_america . 6,000 residents of archipelago celebrate bastille day as proudly as their countrymen in france . france continues to lavish hefty subsidies on islanders as matter of pride and to retain claims on nearby waters believed to be rich in natural gas . 40 percent of people are on government payroll .
 profile of gateway playhouse , with 500-seat theater at compound in bellport and 1,166-seat theater in patchogue , long_island , which has been staging recently retired musical blockbusters and reliable old ones each summer for five decades . three generations of allan family have run gateway , with paul_allan its current producer and sister , robin_joy_allan , current artistic and casting director .
 florida_circuit_court_judge_amy_smith finds amy_habie , chief financial officer of boies_schiller_&_flexner law firm and owner of palm_beach lawn care company nical , guilty of civil contempt . sentences habie to 90 days in jail and orders her to pay $ 500,000 fine to gardening competitor scott_lewis gardening and trimming .
 republican presidential hopeful mitt_romney , instead of tapping his own wealth directly , embarked on effort to leverage his fortune into donations to his campaign . he has built national operation that has quietly signed up some of biggest supporters of pres bush , locking up some of most important donors . he amassed more than $ 20 million from fewer than 33,000 donors by end of first_quarter , vaulting ahead of better-known rivals . top 50 donors gave $ 4.1 million .
 census bureau says minority groups now make up 50.2 percent of texas population , and see trend for nation . members of racial and ethnic minorities already account for more than half of population of hawaii , new mexico and california . from 2000 to 2004 country 's total population grew 4.3 percent to 293.7 million .
 new_york mets pitcher david_cone is scheduled to start against los_angeles_dodgers in port st lucie , fla , first time since march 12 when dodgers reliever guillermo_mota hit mets catcher mike_piazza with pitch , sparking on-field incident that led to five-game suspension for both players . cone , who is pitching after one-year layoff , desperately needs innings to build strength in his right arm . mets have to decide cone 's status by march 29 . cone comments .
 two principal owners of itv , britain 's largest commercial broadcaster , are forced to abandon their own postmerger management plan as result of unusual pressure from major shareholders . carlton_communications_board says chairman michael_green will not become chairman of combined company , itv , as planned after carlton merged with granada . investors , led by fidelity_investments , have been lobbying boards of both companies not to elevate green to top job at itv in part because of carlton 's performance in recent years .
 federal government is paying halliburton co average of $ 2.64 a gallon to import gas and other fuel to iraq from kuwait , more than twice what others pay to truck in kuwaiti fuel . company has exclusive government contract and subcontracts work to kuwaiti firm but takes 26 cents per gallon for itself . criticism erupted in october over average price believed to be $ 1.60 per gallon for fuel available for 71 cents wholesale , but army_corps_of_engineers documents obtained from repr henry_waxman show even higher price . chart . company and army_corps cite high costs for kellogg_brown_&_root unit . halliburton got no-competition contract to repair oil industry and has already received more than $ 1.4 billion .
 jet airways -lrb- india -rrb- draws more than 13 times as many bids as it has stock available for its initial public offering , which ends feb 24 . airline offered 17.26 million shares at 950 rupees -lrb- $ 21.79 -rrb- to 1,125 rupees -lrb- $ 25.80 -rrb- each , to raise about $ 445 million . airline will be 80 percent owned by chairman naresh_goyal after public offering .
 jim_robbins on landscaping legacy of jens_jensen , danish immigrant who sought to capture spare , horizontal beauty of midwestern american prairie and recreate it in urban parks to ease lives of city dwellers . jensen , called dean of world 's landscape architects in his 1951 new_york_times obituary , was superintendent for chicago_parks_department , which has undertaken $ 100-million restoration of some of jensen 's finest public settings . jensen also landscaped estate of edsel and eleanor_ford in detroit suburb of grosse_pointe_shores . park and museum are maintained and restored with major endowment from eleanor_ford .
 profile of lt gov mitch_landrieu , son of one of louisiana 's first political families , who is challenging c ray_nagin to be new_orleans mayor . he would be first white mayor of new orleans since his father , moon , held position generation ago . some conservative whites say they would never vote for a landrieu , and he can not succeed without strong black support .
 slip by judge_shirley_wohl_kram in prematurely ordering aol_time_warner to turn over millions of pages of documents seen bad sign for company in shareholder suit charging accounting fraud . order , while quickly rescinded , suggests how credible she considers suit , which asserts aol executives used bogus transactions to inflate advertising revenue around time it acquired time_warner . stock is up over 50 percent from its lows last_summer , when it disclosed accounting probes , but probes by securities_and_exchange_commission and justice_department and potentially costly suits remain among biggest questions hanging over company .
 giuseppe_cipriani is leveraging his family 's legacy of hospitality into its most ambitious project yet . he and partner steven c witkoff of witkoff_group have bought 55 wall street and will turn it into luxurious fortress of apartments . other names in new_york_city society , including peter_marino , hotelier andre_balazs and ian_schrager , have put their embossed stamp on high-rise apartments .
 at the movies column : agent john_pierson comments on 18-month experiment he undertook with wife and children in which he screened american movies for free at 180 meridian_cinema in taveuni , fiji islands . swedish actor stellan skarsgard comments on his role as wilhelm_furtwangler , conductor who led berlin_philharmonic during nazi era , in istvan_szabo 's new film taking sides .
 trial of osama_awadallah on two counts of perjury begins in manhattan federal court . he is charged with misleading grand jury about his dealings with nawaf_al-hazmi and khalid_al-midhar , two of 9/11 hijackers . in part government 's treatment of awadallah is on trial . lawyer jesse_berman_claims_awadallah was confused and exhausted during his grand jury appearance , after being held incommunicado for 20 days in maximum security solitary confinement .
 california_state_education_board postpones consequences of its high school exit exam for two years , until 2006 , after state-sponsored study finds about one of every five seniors would have failed next year , when graduation requirement was set to take effect . board president reed_hastings says delay will give state 's new curriculum more time to penetrate into school system .
 aricle on high rate of unemployment among unionized building trades workers on long_island . brief survey of individual unions shows that jobless rate is at least double the island-wide rate of 3.6 percent . nassau-suffolk building trades council president jack_kennedy says non-union wages are $ 10 to $ 12 an hour , compared with union scales that range from $ 38 to $ 60 a hour . union members are fighting back , staging protests at two projects that have hired nonunion workers .
 lawmakers in michigan and maryland introduce bills to restrict wal-mart stores ' ability to operate banks in their states . rep john_gleason in michigan proposes bill that would bar industrial banks like one wal-mart is seeking to start . brian moe_of_lower_house in maryland , introduces legislation that would ban wal-mart bank branches from its stores .
 la scala_opera_house in milan is paralyzed by dispute pitting its eminent music director riccardo_muti against its workers . 700 of theater 's 800 workers meet and issue overwhelming but nonbinding vote calling for muti 's resignation . crisis stems from dismissal last month of general manager carlo_fontana , whose relations with muti were rocky . unions , with history of muscle-flexing , are angry about not being consulted .
 former federal_bureau_of_investigation_agent_r_lindley_devecchio , accused in brooklyn of giving colombo crime family captain gregory_scarpa sr information that led to at least four murders , was involved in selling old handguns to undercover agents in 1976 but was not prosecuted by united_states attorney general aide rudolph w giuliani . former federal prosecutor daniel_m_clements says giuliani made decision because he did not want to embarrass bureau .
 air_carrier_association_of_america , lobbying group whose members include low-fair carriers jetblue_airways , america_west_airlines , airtran_airways , frontier_airlines and spirit_airlines , plans to fight united_airlines ' effort to win $ 1.6 billion in federal loan guarantees , which would be centerpiece of its restructuring plan . contends that federal loan guarantee would give united_unfair ammunition against its competitors in low-fair market . says airlines are upset by recent start of ted , united 's own low-fare carrier .
 google is in discussion to acquire youtube , popular video-sharing web site , for $ 1.6 billion . microsoft , yahoo , viacom and news_corp , among others , have visited youtube 's headquarters in san_mateo , calif , in recent months to inquire about buying company . deal for youtube would be crowning moment for property that emerged as cultural phenomenon almost immediately after it officially began last dec . its site delivers over 100 million video clips a day . chad_hurley , founder of company , says he prefers to stay independent .
 california 's 4.4 million asians constitute state 's second-largest ethnic minority group and largest asian population in nation , but have been underrepresented in elected office . they are moving beyond fundraising , where they have long been force , to elect representatives of their own . nine asian-americans are in state legislature , compared with one_10 years ago . only two asian representatives from california are in congress , of seven in members in all .
 family and friends of actor marlon_brando , who died three_months_ago at age 80 , are speaking publicly partly to correct notion , fostered by tabloid stories , that he died a recluse , almost penniless and deeply in debt . brando 's will shows he left estate worth about $ 22 million . friends and relatives say brando spent much of his time at his estate on mulholland_drive in los_angeles and was not a loner .
 candidates in alabama 's republican judicial primaries seek to associate themselves with former state_supreme_court chief justice roy_s_moore , who was dismissed from position by ethics panel for refusing to remove ten commandments monument from state_courthouse . candidates hope to harness outrage of christian voters over moore 's dismissal . justice jean_brown , who is facing challenge from moore 's former legal adviser tom_parker has installed new ten commandments display in context that federal courts say is acceptable . moore has not endorsed any candidate .
 hurricane wilma gains strength as it spins through caribbean . florida braces for storm that has grown into category 5 hurricane with top sustained winds of 175 miles an hour . computer models predict storm will continue moving northwest , possibly striking yucatan_peninsula in mexico before making sharp right turn to northeast . forecast contains much uncertainty .
 fort lee , nj , awaits beginning of largest project in its history , centuria , $ 1 billion complex that will offer more than 800 condominiums , world-class hotel , conference center and extensive new commercial space . developers of centuria will provide borough with $ 2.9 million for creation of affordable housing and will pay out around $ 6 million for public infrastructure costs . john_l_johnson , head of centuria_corp , calls project ` city within a city ' .
 oracle_corp chairman lawrence_j_ellison 's $ 5.1 billion bid for peoplesoft reflects step in ellison 's plan to make oracle dominant presence in market for software used by corporations . ellison 's goal is to achieve in corporate data centers what microsoft has accomplished with desktop personal computers . sees his company 's mainstay product oracle database as corporate computing equivalent of windows operating system . ellison comments .
 toronto-born architect frank_gehry returns to his childhood neighborhood to unveil plans to refashion art gallery of ontario , north_america 's 10th-largest art museum . project , gehry 's first major one in city , is scheduled to begin in early 2005 and be completed in late 2007 at estimated cost of $ 195 million .
 federal health officials to announce proposal that could save taxpayers at least $ 16 billion over next decade by slashing amounts medicare pays for more than two dozen cancer and lung drugs , move almost certain to raise outcry from cancer specialists and some drug companies . changes would save government money and directly benefit medicare recipients , who pay 20 percent of prices their doctors charge for drugs . federal officials estimate changes would reduce typical cancer doctor 's medicare revenue by 8 percent next year . changes result from last year 's medicare drug law .
 annual year-end arts & ideas article offers opinions of handful of scholars , writers and other opinionated people on this year 's most overrated ideas . jaron_lanier comments on beauty , robert_h_frank_comments_on_repeal_of_estate_tax , mary_lefkowitz comments on monotheism , bakari_kitwana comments on beefs among rappers , elaine_showalter comments on public intellectuals , peter singer comments on america as a democratic nation , david_greenberg comments on philosopher leo_strauss , rebecca_solnit comments on capitalism , paula_j_caplan comments on psychology and mary_lefkowitz comments on metaphors .
 david m d ' amiano , longtime acquaintance of gov james e mcgreevey of new jersey , is charged with extorting $ 20,000 political contribution and $ 20,000 personal bribe from mark_halper , owner of cornell_dairy_farm , in exchange for promising to aid him in dispute with town of piscataway . mcgreevey says it is reasonable to assume that he is person who is heard referring to machiavelli on tape recorded by halper at two political events , but denies that reference was code signaling that he would help halper in his dispute with town .
 virginia sen george_allen laments his inability to get things done as senator and has his sights set on presidential office , even as he is running for re-election . allen tacks right to win support nationally , but tactic may hurt his standing in virginia , where his approval ratings were 51 percent in july 2005 but have fallen since . virginia has just elected democratic governor . political analysts say likability is allen 's greatest strength .
 democratic presidential rivals wesley_k_clark , howard_dean , rep richard a gephardt and sens_john_kerry , john_edwards and joseph_i_lieberman score new bill to provide prescription drug benefits under medicare as republican-led effort to privatize and undermine program , aarp-sponsored forum , bedford , nh . several sharply criticize aarp for endorsing bill , criticism applauded by hundreds of elderly in audience . aarp displays at forum television ad that is part of its $ 7 million drive for bill .
 business owners and elected officials from areas near meadowlands complex in new jersey form committee to lobby state to keep continental_arena in east_rutherford as element of proposed $ 1.3 billion meadowlands xanadu complex . are encouraged by what they see as waning state support for proposed sports arena in newark and glimmer of renewed state enthusiasm for continental_arena .
 government forges agreement with nextwave_telecom_inc that will free valuable airwave licenses vital to improving nation 's cellphone system and provide windfall potentially worth billions of dollars to nextwave , which has been in bankruptcy protection since 1998 . nextwave will return to fcc 75 percent of licenses it won in 1996 auction but never paid for , but will be allowed to keep some of the most valuable of disputed licenses in largest cities . government will also receive $ 1.1 billion on top of $ 500 million down payment it received years ago from nextwave . licenses returned to fcc , which have never been used , will be reauctioned .
 jackson_county , ore , closed all 15 of its public libraries in april because their operating money , revenues from timber industry , is gone . county voters on may 15 will decide whether to increase taxes to pay for libraries . voting yes on library measure would raise property taxes about $ 9 month for average homeowner , enough to finance $ 8 million annual budget of library system . experts expect vote to be close .
 energy department and its canadian counterpart hold first public technical discussion on august 2003 blackout that affected cities from new_york to toronto and detroit to consider impact of deregulation of electric system . attendees say industry needs further changes to reduce frequency of blackouts . cite shortcomings in transmission lines and electricity reserves . report issued three months after blackout did not list deregulation as a cause .
 lead producer barry_weissler , following lackluster reviews after opening of tryout in boston , announces revival of 1966 musical sweet charity will not be coming to broadway . announcement comes after weeks of frantic action surrounding production , precipitated by onstage accident in which star christina_applegate broke bone in foot and was replaced by charlotte_d ' amboise .
 frank rich op-ed column scores pres bush and his apologists in and out of government for trying to cover up administration incompetence and malfeasance by blaming news organizations that bring them to light , such as new_york_times in exposing warrantless spying on americans by national_security_agency_and_washington_post in exposing cia 's secret prisons in eastern_europe . says porter_goss was so inept as cia director that overzealous witch hunter might mistake him for qaeda double agent .
 trinidad has emerged as western hemisphere 's leading supplier of liquefied natural gas . accounts for nearly 80 percent of shipments to us , up from virtually nothing five years ago . gas production has ignited rapid growth in trinidad . economic activity increased 13 percent in 2003 and could grow as much again in 2004 . some experts in trinidad worry that natural gas boom is taking on same character as oil-fueled growth burst of 1970 's , which was followed by ruinous decade-long bust culminating in violent coup attempt in 1990 by muslim militants .
 ryan_c_crocker , american ambassador to iraq , will meet with his iranian counterpart in baghdad to discuss iraqi security efforts and cooperation between two countries . pres mahmoud ahmadinejad of iran arrives in united_arab_emirates , first trip there by an iranian leader since country 's founding in 1971 . vice pres dick_cheney arrives in cairo as part of middle_east tour meant to mollify america 's regional allies and strengthen support against iran .
 architect richard_rhodes buys ancient chinese stones , such as walls dismantled in yangtze_river_valley prior to flooding of three gorges dam . salvage venture began six years ago with search for granite for larry_ellison , oracle chief executive who was building japanese temple replica near san_francisco . lawrence m reid is using recut stones to build manor house for steven_steinman in greenwich , conn .
 electric power is restored in detroit , last major metropolitan area to recover from worst blackout in us history . subway service is fully restored in new_york_city and water and electricity are back in cleveland . toronto and rest of ontario return to near normal , although only 70 percent of power capacity is on line and officials warn of rolling blackouts for few days . detroit mayor kwame m kilpatrick celebrates second night free of looting and violence . water is still scarce there .
 yoko_ono , commemorating john_lennon 's 64th_birthday on october 9 , will present when i 'm sixty-four , exhibition of drawings , caricatures and sketches that lennon created , at 102 wooster street in soho . ono , in telephone interview , says she does not think most people know lennon 's artwork or realize he started out as artist .
 first command_financial_planning_of_fort_worth is accused of using influence with air_force chief of staff gen t michael_moseley to stymie air_force 's inquiry into its possible ` unethical or overly aggressive ' sales practices and suitability of archaic and expensive mutual fund it marketed to military personnel . air force legal staff has stopped cooperating with securities industry investigation , but nasd is still pursuing inquiry and has been joined by securities_and_exchange_commission . first command has also come under scrutiny of congress . has informed air_force it will no longer sponsor tops in blue , air_force talent show .
 shutdowns of knitting , apparel and related businesses in part of queens that includes ridgewood , glendale and maspeth is accelerating because of foreign competition , and hundreds of thousands of square feet of industrial space have been put on market . there were about 500 factories there 20 years ago , making roughly three out of every four sweaters worn in us , but now there are only about 75 knitting-related factories .
 chief united_nations weapons inspectors , hans_blix and dr mohamed_elbaradei , report some progress in iraq , and state_sec colin l powell faces deep resistance to his call for security council decision to authorize military force . clash is frontal and impassioned as french foreign min dominique de villepin spurns powell 's arguments , saying that inspections have not failed and that there is no cause for armed action yet . he proposes holding new meeting of security council foreign ministers on march 14 to take stock of iraq 's cooperation .
 fates of pres bush and nuri_kamal_al-maliki have been intertwined ever since maliki became prime minister of iraq . meeting in amman , jordan , was their third face-to-face rendezvous . bush needs maliki government as ally , but maliki 's survival depends , in part , on his ability to demonstrate that he is his own man , not american puppet .
 study comparing number of death sentences issued in state with number of murders committed there finds that texas , often considered to be leading death penalty state , sends smaller percentage of murderers to death row than national average . texas does have one of highest rates of executing inmates once they reach death row . study finds that nevada and oklahoma impose most death sentences , at 6 and 5.1 percent . rate in texas is 2 percent . national average is 2.5 percent . study concludes that blacks commit 51.5 percent of all murders nationally but constitute about 42 percent of death row inmates . authors of study are cornell_law_school death penalty project dir john_blume , prof theodore_eisenberg and prof martin t wells .
 palm_springs , calif , long considered second-home haven , is seeing increasing number of home buyers making desert city into primary residence . has median home price at $ 407,000 , compared to $ 630,000 in orange_county . palm_springs and surrounding area has seen nearly 30 percent increase in permanent residents from 2000 to 2006 . developers are responding with projects that cater to both full-time and part-time residents .
 everything about campaign finance case that supreme_court will hear in special session on sept 8 is outsized : four hours of argument , eight lawyers , lower court record of 100,000 pages with opinions totaling 1,638 pages . 10 separate groups of plaintiffs are challenging 13 provisions of statute that even specialists in election law describe as dauntingly complex . arguments for and against law recalled .
 trial of daniel_j_pelosi , long_island electrician charged with murdering manhattan financier r theodore_ammon in his east hampton_mansion , opens in state_supreme_court , riverhead , ny . prosecutor janet_albertson says pelosi wooed ammon 's estranged wife generosa and then killed him to get at his $ 80 million fortune . pelosi 's lawyer gerald_shargel suggests ammon led hidden double life that ended when gay lover beat him to death .
 barbara_l_moore is convicted in state_supreme_court in manhattan of possession of two pieces of pianist glenn_gould 's papers stolen from canadian_national_library in 1980 . was caught in 2005 after dealer sold papers , which contain gould 's signature , and then put them on sale . ad was spotted by gould expert .
 yahoo leads alliance of corporations , nonprofit groups and universities that plan to digitize hundreds of thousands of books over next several years and put them on internet , with full text accessible to anyone . project , called open content alliance , also includes internet archive , university_of_california , university_of_toronto and national archive in england . will focus at first on works that are in public domain , sidestepping copyright issues that have arisen with similar effort being undertaken by google . digitized books will be made accessible to any search engine , including google 's , whereas under google 's program , digitized book will show up only through google search .
 michael_jackson seeks injunction from british court to bar granada television from showing unused film from recent martin_bashir documentary about him . more than 300 art objects and treasures from vatican to tour north_america . photo . carl_djerassi 's collection of paul_klee to go on view at san_francisco museum of modern art . three photography exhibitions to open at international_museum_of_photography .
 editorial says despite pres bush 's claims that he is looking forward to working with democrats in congress , he wants to use last two months of republican controlled congress to push through two contentious issues . one is bill that would legalize his domestic wiretapping program and gut law that limits president 's ability to use power in this way . second , he wants senate to ratify his recess appointment of john_bolton as ambassador to united_nations .
 qwest_communications makes sweetened $ 8 billion bid for mci , potentially creating bidding war with rival verizon_communications . qwest offer comes week after mci board voted to accept $ 6.75 billion takeover proposal from verizon , despite receiving higher offer from qwest that was worth about $ 8 billion in cash and stock . qwest bid is structured in way to protect mci shareholders against decline of up to 10 percent of qwest 's share price . qwest chief executive richard c notebaert comments .
 more than dozen bidders , including barclay_brothers_of_britain , submit preliminary offers for all or parts of conrad m black 's publishing empire hollinger_international . some bidders noted . hollinger_inc , which holds lord black 's controlling interest in hollinger_international , secures $ 7.4 million it needed to make interest payment that was due march 1 .
 guardian angels , citizens ' watch group founded in new_york in 1979 , has broadened its presence around us , establishing 50 chapters in places like peoria , ill , chattanooga , tenn , toldeo , ohio , and opa-locka , fla . chapters have had mixed successes , seen sometimes as vigilantes and sometimes as volunteer saviors . visits to chapters in savannah , ga , and montgomery , ala , show tug of war between good intentions and reality .
 profile of and interview with santino_chuor , about 25 , and peter_dut , about 20 , sudanese who resettled under refugee program in us as teenagers and are main characters in documentary film lost boys of sudan . chuor , who lives in houston , and dut , who lives in olathe , kan , comment on their lives in refugee camp and in america .
 labor department reports 93,000 jobs were lost in aug , countering expectations that employment would finally begin to expand . reports unemployment rate fell to 6.1 percent , from 6.2 percent in july . bush administration cites drop as positive sign . democrats cite job losses , key issue in early stages of presidential race , as evidence pres bush 's policies are ineffective . bush cites jobs numbers in reiterating call to make his tax cuts permanent . just over million jobs have disappeared since economic recovery began 22 months ago , on top of 1.78 million lost in preceding eight-month recession . employment and unemployment graphs and tables .
 rescuers continue to search for survivors of devastating earthquake that struck bingol in southeastern turkey . dig through huge pile of concrete at collapsed boarding school where more than 60 students remain buried . 45 bodies have been recovered . earthquake has killed at least 118 people and injured 500 more . quake had magnitude of 6.4 , and came along one of turkey 's two major fault lines and left damage for miles .
 two recent brutal winter storms have all but decimated huge swathes of stanley_park , forested oasis next to downtown vancouver , knocking down some 10,000 trees and forcing much of it to be closed as crews struggle to clear debris . park was created by city 's first city_council in 1880s , mayor sam_sullivan says park has special place in vancouver 's heart .
 patricia_fairhurst and andrew_n_liebowitz battle over who has right to guss 's pickles name . fairhurst took over guss 's pickles store in manhattan in 2004 . leibowitz opened guss 's pickles in 2002 in cedarhurst , ny . leibowitz claims he purchased name , trademark , pickle formula and customer lists from prior owner of fairhurst_store . fairhurst files lawsuit claiming ownership rights . at stake is affiliation to izzy_guss , venerated pickler known as ` botticelli_of_brine ' and his decades-old lower east side institution .
 dr anthony_furnary of providence st vincent medical center -lrb- portland , ore -rrb- has developed method called portland protocol , which has been found to dramatically increase survival rates for diabetics who undergo open heart surgery . 29 percent of coronary bypass patients are diabetic . protocol , which keeps diabetics on insulin drip before , after and during surgery , is currently used at 5 to 10 percent of 970 hospitals performing open heart surgery . protocol techniques discussed .
 william_safire op-ed column suggests that as south_korea , united_states , china and japan try to work out way to stop north_korea from using threat of atomic weapons and missiles to blackmail world , idea of reunifying korean_peninsula should be reignited and upcoming multilateral talks should be treated as first stage in that process .
 new_york_state_assembly and senate open their public budget negotiations with conflicting views of how to use state 's multibillion-dollar surplus . republican-control senate proposes tax cuts that would reach $ 6.4 billion annually within three years . democratic-led assembly proposes more modest tax-cut plan and gives priority to substantial increase in state financing of new_york_city schools to comply with court order .
 several democrats running for re-election face ethics investigations , but new_york times / cbs_news poll shows that 35 percent of voters think republican party has most corrupt politicians while only 15 percent say democratic party does . gov rod r blagojevich of illinois leads his republican challenger , judi_baar_topinka , in polls even though federal prosecutors are investigating accusations of endemic hiring fraud in agencies and departments that fall under his purview . gov james_e_doyle of wisconsin , who is in tight race with his republican challenger , rep mark_green , faces charges that workers in his administration made state decisions favorable to those who contributed to his campaign .
 pres viktor a yushchenko of ukraine and pres vladimir_v_putin of russia move publicly to set aside what seemed sharp political and personal differences . yushchenko visits moscow on his first full day in office , and two men pledge to cooperate in years ahead , even as ukraine endeavors to align itself more closely with europe .
 thomas_dupre , former roman catholic bishop of springfield , mass , is charged with two counts of child rape , but dist atty william_m_bennett says statute of limitations would keep him from prosecuting . dupre retired on feb_11 , one day after local newspaper reported accusations that he had abused two boys in 1970 's .
 ford_motor_co has signed up novelist carole_matthews as spokeswoman . matthews 's new book the sweetest taboo includes references to ford fiesta as will her next book with or without you . she is also writing monthly short stories for ford 's web site in britain . ford is also sponsoring short story competition that matthews will judge .
 american military meets for five hours with representatives of rebellious cleric moktada al-sadr in volatile sadr_city neighborhood of baghdad , where sadr 's ragged militia remains well armed , entrenched and defiant . goal for americans and interim iraqi government is disarmament of militia , thorniest issue left unresolved by settlement in najaf . many fighters left najaf for sadr_city . many experts are predicting renewal of combat in other shiite-dominated regions .
 four-story building under construction in queens collapses , killing daniel_basilio and injuring at least two other workers . investigators evacuate neighboring buildings for fear that damaged structure will not hold . service on no 7 subway train is halted for six hours in both directions . galindo and ferreira_corp , which owns site , is issued three violations .
 dismissed federal prosecutor david c iglesias tells congress he felt pressured by phone call from new mexico sen pete_v_domenici to inquire about status of indictments in politically charged case . house and senate committees are exploring whether iglesias and seven other united_states attorneys were ousted for strictly partisan reasons . inquiry has marred long-serving domenici 's almost spotless record .
 pfizer shareholders rebuff recommendations by shareholder activist group and two proxy advisory services and vote to elect all 13 directors during annual meeting in lincoln , neb . several express dismay over pay of chief executive hank_mckinnell . more than 20 percent of votes cast oppose dana_mead and george_lorch , both members of board 's executive compensation committee .
 at the movies column . rick , nonmusical adapation of opera rigoletto , is one of few films made in manhattan in recent months , one of few indie productions not to take toronto route and first feature directed by longtime film editor curtiss_clayton . photo of bill_pullman in title role . 10,606 arnold schwarzenegger fans sign on-line petition for making of long-deferred sequel to conan the barbarian . cannes film festival sets prestige showings .
 new_orleans mayor c ray_nagin wins re-election with 52 percent of vote , while challenger lt gov mitch_landrieu wins 48 percent . nagin won about 20 percent of white vote and 80 percent of black vote , while landrieu seems to have lost some of black votes he won in primary . nagin calls for end to arguments over how to rebuild city after hurricane katrina . pointedly thanks pres bush for helping new_orleans , after earlier criticizing him .
 pittsburgh_symphony_orchestra appoints manfred_honeck as music director , starting in september 2008 . move comes after orchestra hired three conductors two seasons ago to move away from one music director model . orchestra president lawrence_tamburri says that move back to single music director does not necessarily mean the previous model was failure but rather was learning experience .
 hurricane katrina pounds gulf coast with devastating force , sparing new_orleans catastrophic hit but killing dozens in neighboring mississippi . it rips away roofs and leaves coastal roads impassable . emergency workers in harrison_county , miss , including gulfport and biloxi , say they expect to find more dead among people trapped in their homes and in collapsed buildings . downtown mobile , ala , is severely flooded . storm packs 145-mile-an-hour winds as it makes landfall , leaving more than million people in three states without power and submerging highways even hundreds of miles from its center . it ranks as one of most punishing hurricanes ever to hit united_states . insurance experts say damage could exceed $ 9 billion .
 federal government proposes barring mci from winning new government contracts in response to raft of accounting and other problems uncovered by company 's legal monitors and auditors . gao says decision is not based on recent allegations that mci has diverted telephone traffic improperly to avoid making access fee payments to other phone companies . mci receives $ 700 to $ 1 billion each year for federal contracts . has 30 days to respond to proposal and promises vigorous effort to satisfy government 's requirements for qualify for contracts .
 militants holding three foreign united_nations staff members in afghanistan release videotape showing their hostages . say three will be killed if muslim prisoners in afghanistan and guantanamo_bay are not released and foreign troops withdrawn from afghanistan by nov 3 . video , broadcast by al_jazeera , is strongest indication that jaish-e-muslimeen , breakaway_group_of_taliban , is adopting media-oriented tactics of kidnapping groups in iraq .
 in latest tiff between italy and germany , italian official 's insulting remark about german tourists prompts chancellor gerhard_schroder to cancel his vacation in italy . italian official stefano_stefani is apparently still angry over argument last week involving prime min silvio_berlusconi and german deputy martin_schulz in european_parliament . stefani refuses to take back anything he said and berlusconi refuses to fire stefani . italy and germany are charter members of european_union . their latest quarrel could have serious effect on ability of eu to move forward with goal of political integration .
 market place column on verizon 's next move now that at & t is proposing to buy bellsouth . verizon has already said it wants to buy out vodafone , which owns 45 percent of verizon_wireless . while taking full control of wireless division would allow verizon to include all profits from its mobile phone division on its income statements , some investors say verizon would be smarter to sit tight , at least for now .
 construction on 7 world trade center reaches about half its eventual 750-foot , 52-story height , confounding those who doubted if larry_silverstein would build it . tischman_construction_corp , which built the no . 7 destroyed on sept_11_, 2001 , is building its replacement . no . 7 will be structurally reinforced and incorporate many safety features . is scheduled for completion in late 2005 or early 2006 .
 leaders of senate_governmental_affairs_committee_press_defense_department to explain why army contractor torch concepts collected information on more than million passengers of jetblue_airways for antiterrorism study , act that lawmakers say might have been violation of federal privacy laws . sens susan_m_collins , joseph_i_lieberman and carl_levin send letter to defense_sec_donald_h_rumsfeld .
 pres bush and british prime min tony_blair say col_muammar_el-qaddafi has admitted that libya was trying to develop arsenal of unconventional weapons . say he has promised to dismantle them and submit to international inspections . bush links agreement with qaddafi directly to war in iraq . blair says libyan overture on disarmament was direct outgrowth of talks that led to settlements over pan_am 103 bombing . libya 's actions came after nine months of secret diplomacy . it is first time that qaddafi admitted to having unconventional weapons or programs to produce them . senior administration official says libya got much further in its nuclear program than us suspected . bush photo .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column on incompetence of bush administration that emerges from reading of state of denial , bob_woodward 's book on bush national security team 's conduct of iraq war . expresses hope that democrats take control of house and senate from republicans in november , delivering shock that might yield some chance of salvaging iraq and solving some domestic problems . says democrats should ideally win by one vote in each chamber so that they would have to govern from center and look for bipartisan solutions .
 michael_winerip column interviews senior cadets at united_states military academy at west point , ny , on prospect of serving in iraq . none deny their duty to serve , but at least one is concerned that war does not have exit strategy . applications are down 16 percent for school year starting sept 2005 , from post-9 / 11 high in 2003 . other military academies are also experiencing application declines , but academy 's admissions director says there are still 10 applicants for every slot . cartoon .
 harvard_university prof stephen_greenblatt op-ed article compares first debate between pres bush and sen john_kerry to shakespeare 's julius_caesar . contends that when bush thought he was unobserved by tv camera he disclosed astonishing range of emotions : confusion , annoyance and something like rage . asserts that it was revealing and unnerving sight , something like seeing into marc_antony 's head when he addresses roman crowd .
 article on impact that weakening of three so-called pillars of nonproliferation -- 1968 nuclear nonproliferation treaty , 1972 biological weapons convention and 1997 chemical weapons convention -- may have on influencing arms control . arms control experts note treaties and agreements may be unable to deter hostile states or terrorists from acquiring the most lethal weapons . note that north_korea has renounced nuclear treaty and india , pakistan and israel have never signed it . carnegie endowment for international peace senior associate joseph_cirincione warns that bush administration is undermining nonproliferation norms and alliances through its determination to develop antiballistic missile shield and new class of nuclear weapons , its abandonment of international effort to strengthen bioweapons treaty and its attack on iraq .
 ata_airlines becomes first major low-fare airline to seek chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , move that sets off bidding war for company and its assets . airline says it will continue to operate normally , that all tickets will be honored , and that it will maintain complete schedule of flights . agrees to sell its gates and slots at midway in chicago , laguardia in new_york and reagan national airport in washington to airtran for $ 87.6 million . america west says it is interested in bidding for all of ata . southwest_airlines is expected to bid for all or part of carrier .
 john_izzi , joshua_ferranto and tekomah_goggins are charged with reckless endangerment and other crimes for climbing to top of williamsburg bridge during morning rush hour . stunt drew police and members of bomb squad and emergency_service unit and bridge was closed for more than two hours . police say men had been out drinking and were dangerous only to themselves . episode provides proof that city 's emergency preparedness during stepped-up terrorist alert is working .
 article on work of lawrence and nancy_goldstone of westport , conn , in exploring links between voynich manuscript , cipher manuscript found in 1912 by london rare-book dealer , wilfrid_michael_voynich , and 13th-century scientist roger_bacon . goldstones , in new book , the friar and the cipher : roger_bacon and the unsolved mystery of the most unusual manuscript in the world , theorize that bacon , franciscan friar silenced because of conflicts with the church , may have encrypted manuscript during period of confinement in late 1250 's .
 jim_bensman , longtime critic of system of locks and dams on mississippi , attended public meeting in july on proposed construction of bypass channel for fish at dam on mississippi . suggested army_corps_of_engineers , which maintains river navigation systems , destroy dam . corps had already considered idea , but bensman 's suggestion caused federal bureau of investigation to think he might be terrorist . fbi insists bensman is no longer under suspicion , but he remains concerned .
 pres bush signed free trade pact with australia at white_house ceremony on aug 3 . australian labor party leader mark_latham responds by vowing to block_australian_senate approval . labor party , now in opposition , is trying to sell itself as best party to carry out free trade pact , which is to go into effect jan 1 . latham says he is not interested in political compromise .
 us bureau_of_transportation_statistics says more than 400,000 flights have been delayed or canceled so far this year , more than one of every five that take off . delayed flights have increased 34 percent so far this year from same period in 2003 , reversing two-and-a-half year trend of fewer delays set in motion as airlines cut back service and passenger traffic fell sharply .
 defense sec_donald_h_rumsfeld , after attending conference on asian security in singapore , has hastily-arranged meeting with bangladeshi officials , but is unsuccessful in getting troops from bangladesh for service in iraq or afghanistan . bangladesh currently has nearly 5,000 peacekeepers deployed around world on united_nations missions , more than any other nation .
 thomas h lee partners , private equity firm , sues former executives of refco , collapsed futures and commodities brokerage firm , seeking to recover at least $ 245 million of $ 453 million paid by three lee funds to buy 57 percent of refco in 2004 . names philip_r_bennett , tone grant and santo_c_maggio . bennett photo .
 fox is set to kick off fifth season of drama 24 with back-to-back two hour episodes . maintaining show 's prime-time grip may prove challenging as show now has competition from other shows featuring terrorism in plotlines . question also arises whether show will be able to increase its average viewing audience of 12.1 million from previous season .
 worldwide reaction to pres bush 's ultimatum to iraq 's pres saddam hussein discussed . bush draws stinging criticism from france and germany . rest of world seems worried and divided . french pres jacques_chirac denounces decision to resort to war as illegal and wrongheaded . german chancellor gerhard_schroder echoes similar condemnation . says germany will honor pledge and allow overflights of us warplanes and use of military bases . britain 's prime min tony_blair delivers impassioned defense of alliance with pres bush to parliament . his government prevails with backing from conservative opposition in 412-149 vote . australian government will commit token 2,000 troops , flying in face of widespread public opposition . prime min jose_maria_aznar of spain emphasizes madrid 's support of washington , despite widespread opposition among spaniards , falls short of combat involvement . new opinion poll finds increasing popular resentment and hostility toward us and bush in most of america 's major european allies and russia .
 wesley_h_colwell , former chief accountant of enron 's wholesale energy-trading unit , and wanda_curry , former internal accountant , testify at trial of kenneth l lay and jeffrey_k_skilling . say company padded earnings and shifted hundreds of millions in losses from one division to another to disguise problems that might have concerned investors . testimony could be important in prosecution efforts to show that skilling knowingly directed manipulations of enron earnings and financial results and then lied about enron 's performance .
 peter_dobkin_hall op-ed article recalls that congress enacted federal income tax in 1893 out of concern about concentration of wealth , at time when annual incomes of tycoons like john_d_rockefeller and andrew_carnegie were greater than tax revenues of most states . details rockefeller 's first return and his instruction in 1916 to make return accurate and follow law .
 patrick_mcgeehan column on efforts of pension managers and california regulators to reduce total of $ 200 million or more dozen executives will get if anthem_inc acquires rival health insurer wellpoint_health_networks for $ 16.4 billion . critics of deal have tried to tap into investors ' anger over excessive executive pay , citing $ 82 million wellpoint chairman and chief executive leonard d schaeffer will get . deal provides immediate benefits for all senior executives of both companies , but little of synergy that justifies most mergers .
 former new jersey govs brendan_t_byrne and james_florio tell gov james e mcgreevey 's property tax convention task force that three decades of political agony over state 's property tax burden has done little good , and only solution is to take tax policy out of state_house and hand it to constitutional convention .
 authorities warn that flow of money to dayton 's 40 charter schools , in which 26 percent of students are enrolled , is undermining public school system . dayton , with highest charter school enrollment rate in country , has lost $ 41 million of $ 114 million in state school aid . academically , few of dayton 's charter schools have proved to be better than public schools , which are ohio 's worst . mayor rhine_mclin has called for moratorium on charter schools , but she seems unable to stop grow th , and nine more have received preliminary approval . supporters of charter schools praise choices offered parents , while critics say dayton has become playground of entrepreneurs .
 author holly_brubach op-ed article holds that beginning in 1975 , when pittsburgh steelers won four super bowls in six years , they earned people of pittsburgh respect they never had . maintains that steelermania these days includes heavy dose of nostalgia , not only for those legendary teams but also for era before steel industry 's demise , when city still had strong identity .
 visa usa reportedly agrees to pay $ 2 billion to retailers and cut fees it charges merchants on some debit card purchases to settle class-action suit by retailers over its debit card fees . both visa and mastercard , which earlier reached $ 1 billion settlement , will also pay $ 25 million immediately . agree to give retailers choice of accepting either credit or debit cards or both .
 israeli prime min ariel_sharon , facing sharper opposition from coalition partners and catcalls from likud party leaders , agrees to have party 's 200,000 members vote on his plan for withdrawal from gaza and some of west_bank . likud leaders praise israel 's assassination of hamas leader sheik_ahmed_yassin . sharon to seek pres bush 's support before referendum .
 onetime department store building on south side of union square in manhattan that has been vacant for three years is to come back to life in next year with retailers whole foods market , clothing stores forever 21 and filene 's basement , and shoe store dsw . building 's owner vornado_realty_trust will spend $ 46 million on renovations .
 alan johnson_associates survey finds year-end bonuses on wall street will be highly lucrative , with payouts rising 10 percent to 15 percent from 2005 . investment bankers , who give advice to corporations , are expected to experience biggest percentage rise , about 20 percent to 25 percent , from 2005 . traders , who make investment bets for their firms , and those who operate in complex world of structured products and derivatives will receive $ 40 million to $ 50 million . average managing director is expected to get $ 1.7 million , up from $ 1.2 million last year .
 dr thomas_e_levy , university_of_california -lrb- san_diego -rrb- archaeologist , and mohammad_najjar , department of antiquities of jordan excavations and surveys director , lead excavations at khirbat en-nahas , jordan , copper processing facility . hold that new dating shows that facility was in full operation as early as 12th century bc . critics question whether edomite society was capable of such large-scale operation . hold that edom was not developed society at that point in time . findings at copper site are published in journal biblical archaeology review .
 life 's work column about professional couples who share one well-paying job as solution to work and child care issues . neonatologists drs michele and jonathan_chai , pastors amy jacks and russ_dean and astrophysicists nicholas_mccord_schneider and erica_ellingson explain schedules . schneider and ellingson share tenure-track position at university_of_colorado .
 chicago police department chief of detectives phil_cline plays videotapes taken from four security cameras that show desperate , crushing stampede of patrons at e2_nightclub in chicago that killed 21 people on february 17 . says police and firefighters , who entered club through alternate door and shepherded clubgoers outside , performed heroically . police , based on tapes and eyewitness interviews , believe pepper spray was released after fight near dance floor , triggering melee and panic .
 new zoning laws for waterfront areas in brooklyn are causing property values to soar along newtown_creek , industrial waterway dividing williamsburg and greenpoint sections of borough . developers like moshe feller and park tower group are buying canal-side properties for development . business executive susan_r_wexner , sister of limited brands ceo leslie_h_wexner , purchases three-bedroom apartment at 980 fifth avenue , listed at $ 8.25 million . nbc sportscaster bob costas and wife buy two-bedroom condo in time_warner_center for $ 4.95 million , decorated and furnished by interior designer victoria_hagan .
 gypsy moths , whose numbers had been dwindling in much of northeast for several years , have made resurgence and are wreaking havoc on trees , particularly in new jersey . state_department_of_agriculture reports pests have infested 125,473 acres of forest , nearly triple acreage defoliated in state in 2005 and well above 6,502 acres infested in 2004 .
 bush administration will bring case against european_union at world trade organization over european subsidies to aircraft maker airbus , reviving dispute on scale that may turn out to be largest ever heard by trade organization . dispute centers on billions of dollars in government subsidies given to american and european_industry_giants , boeing and airbus , and it promises to involve most money in any case that has been brought before wto . us trade representative , rob_portman , releases statement saying he will ask wto to form panel to consider dispute . decision follows telephone coversation with peter_mandelson , top-ranking european trade official , and unusual public rebuke from us .
 pres bush marks national day of prayer with address that is broadcast over several christian television and radio networks , transmitting his message to pivotal political constituency . participation is criticized by americans united_for_separation_of_church_and_state , which suggests event amounts to improper political ad for bush 's re-election . some religious figures accuse broadcast organizers and white_house of using prayer for political purposes . details of speech noted . national day of prayer was created by congress in 1952 .
 four students agree to pay recording industry 's trade assn $ 12,000 and $ 17,000 each over next three years , settling lawsuits intended to strike fear in hearts of college students who regularly download music over internet without paying for it . suits are first effort by recording industry assn of america to take direct legal action against students in effort to stamp out internet piracy , which has spiraled on college campuses despite demise of napster . daniel_peng , one of students sued , denies any wrongdoing .
 mount zion united_methodist_church of philadelphia , miss , holds its annual memorial service for james_earl_chaney , andrew_goodman and michael_schwerner , three young men killed in 1964 when they came to investigate burning of church by ku klux klan . this year , by coincidence , memorial falls in midst of trial of edgar_ray_killen , accused of orchestrating their murders .
 major airlines have instituted three rounds of fare increases in last four weeks after trying unsuccessfully for more than two years to raise prices to cover fuel costs . latest increases were put in place this week , when american , continental , northwest and even delta_air_lines all raised one-way fares by $ 5 . even low-fare airlines like southwest and jetblue have raised fares , although southwest 's increases have been as little as $ 1 .
 hong_kong government announces plans for publicly traded mass transit system to merge with kowloon-canton railway_corp . government officials call for mass_transit_system_mtr_corp , which is 76 percent owned by government and 24 percent by public , to conclude merger talks by end of august with railway corporation , which is entirely owned by government . dr sarah_liao , secretary for environment , transport and works , says merged transit system would be regulated .
 albert_palacci , owner of three stores in manhattan , is sued by three workers , all hispanic women , who accuse him of sexually harassing them and paying them as little as $ 3 an hour for 10 - and 12-hour workdays . lawsuit says he kept bed in basement of one store for sex . palacci denies charges and says he pays top money to workers . immigrant advocates say charges are all too common in city .
 threat of boycott of french wines by americans annoyed at french position on iraq is hard to take , and could not come at worse time for struggling industry . germany , french ally on iraq issue , is biggest export market for bordeaux wines , but that is little consolidation . value of bordeaux shipments to germany slumped 7 percent , because of bad performance of germany economy .
 article on rock band the wrens . was poised for huge success in 1990 's , but rejected $ 1 million contract from benefactor , could n't afford to continue touring and record companies lost interest . brothers kevin and greg_whelan , charles_bissell and jerry_macdonald worked temp jobs and lived for years together in secaucus , nj , until macdonald got married . four have taken more permanent jobs , three still live together in secaucus and all still cling to hope for success .
 winter rainstorm causes worst flooding in california 's wine country in two decades . sets off mudslides and forces evacuation of hundreds of people and closing of roads and freeways in california and nevada . no serious injuries or deaths are reported . napa_county agricultural commissioner dave_whitmer says vines can withstand some standing water .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column urges pres bush to support protesters in kiev who are backing opposition leader viktor yushchenko . holds that most ukrainians love us , and to be american in kiev is to be rock star . contends that pres vladimir_putin seems to regard ukrainians as russia 's serfs . asserts that he was co-conspirator with ukraine 's outgoing pres leonid kuchma to fix election in favor of pro-moscow candidate viktor yanukovich .
 israeli forces stage two major operations in west_bank , fatally shooting two palestinians in tulkarm and sending scores of soldiers into that city , where they close television stations and demolish blocklong produce market . operations in tulkarm and in hebron , along with other israeli military actvity , come two days after overwhelming election victory by prime min ariel_sharon , who pledged tough approach toward conflict between israelis and palestinians .
 hong_kong 's consumer price index rose 0.9 percent in july compared with figures year earlier , ending 68 consecutive months of decline . rising prices in china are starting to pull up prices in hong_kong . unemployment rate is 6.9 percent . government statisticians classify additional 3.5 percent of labor force as underemployed , meaning that they are in part-time jobs because they can not find full-time work .
 article on april 12 sexual abuse incident at american_school for the deaf in west_hartford , conn . state attorney general richard_blumenthal has opened investigation into school 's handling of sexual assault of two students in dorm by 16-year-old boy . connecticut 's child advocate jeanne_milstein says child-on-child sexual violence at residential facilities is rising and that some facilities are increasingly unwilling to report sexual assaults .
 even seasoned executives of catholic_relief_services , which has responded to natural disasters around world for last 61 years , find misfortune in southern_asia almost overwhelming . catholic relief is one of america 's largest aid organizations , with staff of 4,400 in nearly 100 countries . because devastation from earthquake and tsunami is spread across 3,000 miles , agency is sending teams of emergency relief managers simultaneously to multiple countries , on remote islands , in war zones and on unfamiliar turf . it is kicking off ambitious fund-raising campaign because it committed to spending $ 25 million in private funds , even though so far it has collected only $ 5 million in donations .
 profile of robert_mondavi , 90-year-old founder of fine wine business in united_states . robert_mondavi winery is facing tough times , with declining revenues and sales . mondavi lost $ 1.6 million in third_quarter . it has sold 10 percent of its vineyards and laid off 10 percent of its workers . extraordinary glut of wine and grapes is affecting entire industry , but mondavi malaise goes deeper , to longstanding family differences over very wines they make and how they sell them .
 new_york_yankees notebook discusses arizona_diamondbacks pitcher randy_johnson . agent barry_meister insists johnson is not close to being traded . new_york_yankees pitcher kevin_brown is close to returning from intestinal parasite . yankees first baseman jason_giambi says he is uncertain whether he will participate in home run derby at all-star game .
 britain 's houses of common votes overwhelmingly to introduce elections to house of lords . approves separate reforms to elect 100 percent and 80 percent of members of house_of_lords and another one removing last remaining 92 hereditary peers . upper house is currently at center of corrosive political scandal over allegations that aides to prime min tony_blair tried to cover up illicit trade in peerages in return for campaign contributions .
 following up column reports that craig_s_crimmins is making third application for parole on sentence for murdering violinist helen_hagnes_mintiks in metropolitan_opera_house in 1980 . reports that radio ` shock jocks ' gregg_hughes and anthony_cumia , fired from wnew-fm for account of couple supposedly having sex in st_patrick 's cathedral , are looking for new jobs .
 suit filed against internal_revenue_service by fallen hedge fund long-term capital management is seen as test for founding partner and nobel prize winning economist myron_scholes , who conceived of $ 106 million tax deduction ultimately disallowed by irs . deduction involved purchase of shares and associated tax deductions from overseas investors who were unable to use deductions themselves . irs has assessed long-term capital $ 40 million in taxes and $ 16 million in penalties and interest .
 mayor john_destefano of new haven and mayor dannel_p_malloy of stamford , democrats challenging gov m jodi_rell , find her unexpectedly formidable opponent . hoped that voters would link rell to john_g_rowland , former governor who resigned in disgrace , elevating her . rell receives high job approval ratings . candidates must also vie for attention with us_senate primary in which three-term incumbent joseph_i_lieberman is fighting high-profile battle with ned_lamont .
 value of seat on new_york_stock_exchange drops by $ 500,000 , providing strong indication that traders are nervous about big_board 's future . exchange announces that two seats are sold for $ 1.35 million , down from last sale of $ 1.85 million on sept_18 , day after richard_a_grasso resigned as chairman and chief executive of exchange .
 former securities_and_exchange_commission investigator gary_aguirre , testifying before senate_judiciary_committee , says senior sec officials , under political pressure , stopped his investigation of suspected insider trading by pequot_capital_management , hedge fund overseen by trader arthur_samberg . says superiors first praised his investigation but suddenly withdrew their support after he tried to take testimony of influential wall street executive john_mack . witnesses urge senators to regulate hedge funds .
 us wins men 's 4x100 medley relay in swimming at 2004 olympics . set new world record . germany wins silver and japan wins bronze . grant hackett -lrb- australia -rrb- wins 1,500-meter freestyle event . larsen_jensen -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and david_davies -lrb- britain -rrb- wins bronze . australia wins women 's 4x100 medley relay . us wins silver and germany wins bronze .
 tamara_rabi and adriana_scott , 20-year-old identical twins born in mexico but separated at birth and raised in us , are reunited at hofstra_university on long_island , ny . meet through persistent efforts of friend of adriana 's who met tamara at her 20th birthday party and insisted that she resembled his friend adriana . neither twin nor tamara 's adoptive mother knew she had sister . adriana 's adoptive mother knew she had twin sister , but did not know how to find her .
 thailand 's prime min thaksin shinawatra sets path for better economy . thailand 's economy is accelerating , unemployment is falling and ` thaksinomics ' appears to be success . thailand has made last payment on $ 3.4 billion international monetary fund lent it during asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998 . thaksin 's thailand is nation transformed : foreign debt has dropped by two-thirds , economy is expected to grow 6 percent this year and stock market has soared 69 percent .
 paris review , literary quarterly which has operated for more than 30 of its 52 years from ground floor of upper_east side brownstone of its founding editor george_plimpton , moves to new headquarters in tribeca . current and former staff members catalog and pack boxes and reminisce with plimpton 's widow , sarah .
 tony award nominations are announced . musical the drowsy chaperone receives 13 nominations , including best musical , best direction and best lead actor and actress . the color purple receives 11 nominations , including best musical and four acting nominations . alan bennett play history boys leads new play category with seven nominations , followed by martin_mcdonagh play the lieutenant of inishmore with five nominations . the pajama game dominates musical revival category with nine nominations and clifford_odets 's awake and sing ! leads for play revival with eight nominations . list of all nominations .
 david_carr column on decline in popularity of so-called lad magazines , or magazines for men . holds british publisher emap earlier in month pulled plug on fhm , which had circulation of 1.25 million , and left country . notes its advertising dropped 19.7 percent in first_11_months_of_year . says maxim , circulation leader in men 's category with rate base of 2.5 million , is down 5 percent in advertising pages this year from year before , and lucrative newsstand sales are down more than 200,000 in last_three_years . says many web sites are offering same content that these magazines offer .
 local government in inchon , south_korea , created country 's first_chinatown_four_years_ago , hoping to attract chinese investors and tourists . today , inchon 's chinatown is quiet and business is very slow . some cite lack of chinese residents . languishing chinatown reflects south_korea 's larger ambivalence toward re-emerging china . china is now south_korea 's top trading partner , but historical fear of being suffocated by china remains .
 judge paul p biebel jr rules that special prosecutor 's report on accusations of torture by chicago police officers over two decades should be made public . report is result of investigation spanning four years and costing more than $ 5 million . inquiry stems from accusations by 192 people that police officers at two city stations tortured them .
 long island journal . camille_solis , 57 , mother and grandmother , comments on joining convent after her marriage broke up in 1991 and becoming roman catholic nun . sister camille , whose ministry is at st_mary_'s_roman_catholic_church in east_islip , is believed to be only sister mom on long_island . roslyn-based concert harpist karen_strauss comments on performing at molloy_college in rockville centre as part of bannerman harp ensemble .
 three hurricanes in rapid succession have left florida hurricane victims and aid workers battered and exhausted . hurricane ivan damaged pensacola more than first two storms . there have been 72 cases of looting and 18 arrests in local_county , as well as riot over ice and water that was broken up by twenty sheriff 's deputies and swat team . national guard and salvation army put in long hours .
 supreme court rules unanimously that release of the death-scene photographs of vincent_w_foster , clinton administration 's deputy white_house counsel who killed himself in 1993 , would be unwarranted invasion of privacy of foster 's surviving family members . court holds photographs should be shielded from disclosure in suit brought under freedom of information act by california lawyer alan_j_favish , who says he doubted conclusion reached in five separate investigations that foster committed suicide .
 ben_brantley critic 's notebook column comments on plays , many of them with war themes , that have opened in london since american and british invasion of iraq . plays include 75th-anniversary revival of r c sheriff 's journey 's end , directed by david_grindley , riot group production of adriano_shaplin 's pugilist specialist , satirical revue a weapons inspector calls by justin_butcher , revival of samuel_beckett 's happy days , out of joint production of david_hare 's perm anent way and michael_frayn 's democracy .
 bloomberg_administration intends to lay off 3,400 government workers , one percent of work force , and close eight firehouses in strongest steps yet to close new_york_city 's worsening budget gap . police and firefighters are excepted . firehouse closings are announced after months of resistance from neighborhoods . photo of council_speaker_gifford_miller denouncing closings . bloomberg has failed for months to get concessions from unions or help from state or federal government . officials say layoffs could be averted if unions come up with $ 600 million in concessions .
 national institutes of health reports that even without official approval of medical community saw palmetto supplement , derived from berry-producing palm , has become fifth most popular medicinal herb . routinely prescribed in europe to relieve symptoms of enlarged prostate , herb is considered dietary supplement in us . increase of interest in herb among doctors discussed . harvesting of saw palmetto in florida and deep south explained with focus on immokalee -lrb- florida -rrb- , center of market for berry , which is harvested six weeks per year .
 navalady in eastern sri_lanka , lost at least 620 of about 1,900 inhabitants in tsunami , including wife and four sons of bodybuilder santosh_chinnathambi_selvam . most of 490 families were related in one way or another . residents waver between vowing never to return and saying they would return if everyone else did . community spirit frayed during refuge at school in batticaloa , yet according to hindu custom 30 days after disaster , people returned to navalady to cook feast for their relatives who had died .
 metro matters column on silence of prominent roman catholic republicans in progressive new_york as some bishops threaten to deny communion to catholics like john_kerry who support abortion rights . notes that in new_york , home of loud opinions , nothing has been heard on subject from cardinal edward_m_egan , rudolph_giuliani or gov george_pataki . adds that latter two and gov arnold_schwarzenegger , who also favors abortion rights , have not drawn church disapproval .
 lt gen john r vines , top american commander in afghanistan , says his forces killed as many as 200 fighters suspected of being members of taliban in southern part of country in last two weeks . says infiltration of taliban has been significant and might include as many as 1,000 fighters in area northeast of kandahar , previous taliban stronghold . infiltration adds to american and afghan concerns about degree to which pakistan remains sanctuary for taliban forces . american , pakistani and afghan officials are scheduled to meet later this week to discuss matter . defense sec donald h rumsfeld holds talks with pres hamid_karzai in kabul .
 new_york mayor michael_bloomberg proposes that $ 1 billion set aside in insurance fund to defend new_york_city against negligence lawsuits related to sept 11 terrorist attacks be put into victims ' compensation fund for those who claim they were injured while working at ground zero . money , which was set aside by federal_emergency_management_agency in in 2003 to create state-chartered insurance company , is often mistaken for compensation fund , making it difficult to reallocate it .
 ezra_idlet , half of quirky folk-rock duo called trout fishing in america , is building treehouse to live in , on his land in arkansas_ozarks . he and wife karen and musical partner keith_grimwood have been working for six years on project , which was inspired by peter_nelson 's book treehouses : the art and craft of living out on a limb .
 hicham el-guerrouj -lrb- morocco -rrb- wins men 's 1,500-meter race at 2004 olympics . bernard_lagat -lrb- kenya -rrb- wins silver and rui_silva -lrb- portugal -rrb- wins bronze . tonique wiliams-darling -lrb- bahamas -rrb- wins women 's 400-meter race . ana guevara -lrb- mexico -rrb- wins silver and natalya_antyukh -lrb- russia -rrb- wins bronze . joanna_hayes -lrb- us -rrb- wins women 's 100-meter hurdles . olena_krasovska -lrb- ukraine -rrb- wins silver and melissa_morrison -lrb- us -rrb- wins bronze .
 closing arguments begin in fraud trial of former qwest_communications chief executive joseph_p_nacchio . federal prosecutor colleen_conry portrays nacchio as man who knowingly and unlawfully concealed qwest 's growing money problems , while simultaneously cashing in on his stock options . nacchio 's lawyer herbert_stern seeks to paint his client as ambitious and passionate executive who may have misjudged qwest 's financial prognostications , but believed deeply in his own numbers .
 former mayor rudolph_w_giuliani , speaking on opening night of republican national convention , invokes pres bush 's leadership after 9/11 and claims sen john_kerry does not have fortitude to lead nation through war on terror . describes his first hours at ground zero , and bush 's visit three days later , as delegates listen in stunned silence . says kerry 's record of inconsistent positions on combating terrorism gives him no confidence that kerry would pursue determined , difficult course bush is following . procession of speakers recount 9/11 tragedy that bush 's aides view as linchpin to his re-election . giuliani 's remarks about kerry leave no doubt that this convention will strike notably different tenor than did democratic convention , where kerry instructed loyalists to refrain from excessive attacks on bush . republicans feel best strategy for bush 's re-election is to use convention week to tear down kerry , given that voters know so much and have set opinions about bush .
 new_york attorney general eliot_spitzer files complaint charging that top executives of aon , world 's second-largest insurance broker , directed transactions that help mislead and possibly increase costs to consumers . aon , seeking to end investigation , reaches settlement with new_york , connecticut and illinois , and agrees to pay restitution of $ 190 million to its customers and pledges to conduct business fairly and openly .
 in 1905 albert_einstein , who was then 26 year-old patent clerk in bern , switzerland , wrote three major physics papers that are now considered to constitute miracle year of discovery . united nations has officially designated 2005 as international year of physics and numerous celebrations and events around world have been planned to honor centennial of his achievements and hopefully engage and inspire young people to become involved in science . public fascination with einstein and planned events discussed .
 bush administration officials say sec condoleezza_rice , eager to conclude deal with north_korea , bypassed layers of government policy reviews that derailed previous efforts . say security adviser stephen_hadley ` walked it through ' in lieu of formal meetings that would have brought in vice pres cheney , defense_department and white_house figures who rejected previous proposals . conservatives like john_bolton are attacking deal as no better and perhaps worse than one signed by pres_clinton in 1994 . rice pressed case directly with pres bush after briefing from envoy christopher_hill .
 scene in well-guarded former italian restaurant inside mansour hotel in baghdad described as dozens of members of iraqi_stock_exchange record buy and sell orders . 150 brokers and traders are licensed to enter exchange on two days a week that are open for trading . exchange operates as independent entity of iraq_securities_commission , with support_of_finance_ministry and advice of experts in nearby american_embassy .
 sen john_kerry , in interview , says pres bush 's focus on iraq has allowed iran and north_korea to proceed with their nuclear programs . insists he would have dealt with threats simultaneously . feels bush 's rhetoric scared north_korea into accelerating its program . kerry is particularly interested in securing fissionable material in former soviet_union and in expanding bush 's proliferation security initiative to intercept trade in such materials . insists military pre-emption be last resort .
 mexico 's pri , which lost longtime grip on presidency three years ago , remains potent force , winning slim majority in crucial elections for lower chamber of deputies . answer to party 's hold lies in places like campeche , at southern_tip_of_mexico , where pri has used vast system of patronage to buy loyal support for decades .
 mayor michael r bloomberg voices support for iraq war and several other bush admiinistration initiatives when laura_bush visits new_york , using opportunity to burnish his own republican credentials with national_party . mrs_bush is in town to dedicate gardens of remembrance for sept 11 victims and promote preserve america , white_house initiative that encourages and supports community efforts to preserve america 's cultural and natural_heritage .
 patrick j fitzgerald continues to seek information about karl rove 's discussions with reporters in days before cia officer 's identity was made public . appears to be trying to determine whether rove was fully forthcoming about his contacts with matthew_cooper of time_magazine and robert_d_novak in july 2003 . lawyers in case say rove and i lewis_libby jr face possbility of indictment on perjury or other charges related to covering up their actions .
 transport workers union of america , commenting on recent subway disruptions in new_york_city , says metropolitan_transportation_authority has lowered maintenance standards that brought transit network back from its abyss in 1980 's . authority denies the accusation . budget documents from last_two_years -- in which agency cut hundreds of jobs as part of austerity plan -- suggest that financial pressures are being felt across wide swath of transit tasks , most of them invisible to average rider . cutbacks in 2004 totaled about $ 102 million in agency 's $ 5.2 billion operating budget .
 article on bigotry encountered by new_jersey_'s_sikh_community , in light of incident in lodi in which two youths concocted story of being set upon and having hair cut . two were reacting to years of taunting about religious mandate to keep hair long . sikhs are assumed by the ignorant to be muslims , which they are not . yadvinder singh , elder at glen_rock_temple attended by two teenagers explains that monotheistic religion is about 500 years old and is fifth-largest faith in world , with 25 million believers .
 many washington insiders , including people close to both senators charles_schumer and hillary_rodham_clinton , democrats from new_york , see growing competition between the two senators . both have been jockeying to make names for themselves on issue of homeland security . political analysts say new_york is served well by having two aggressive senators but say situation creates difficulties for other lawmakers trying to coordinate with schumer and clinton .
 morgan_stanley 's board is expected to elect john_j_mack as chairman and chief executive , succeeding philip_j_purcell , man who forced him out as president in bitter power struggle in 2001 . mack 's triumphant return seen as resounding victory for morgan_stanley bankers and traders whose revolt against purcell 's leadership forced recalcitrant board to abandon its longstanding support of him . purcell 's status as outsider and mack 's renown as ultimate_morgan_stanley insider paved way for his return . several crucial matters remain unresolved . mack has told board he wants return of former morgan_stanley executives who left firm after management shake-up in mar , including vikram_s_pandit . return of pandit would antagonize zoe_cruz , whom purcell appointed co-president in mar . managing rift between pandit and cruz will be severe test of mack 's skills as executive .
 housing trust_of_america plans to convert 4 historic cordage factory buildings , jersey city , into over 300 housing units , including many affordable by blue-collar people . second developer proposes turning fifth building in complex into live-work space for artists . bankruptcy court , which had authorized tearing down all 8 buildings on site , reversed itself under pressure from preservationists and community group members . 3 remaining buildings are badly damaged and will be razed .
 new_york gov george_pataki will propose reducing state tuition aid next year by as much as half . reduction would come just as state_university_of_new_york imposes largest tuition increase in history . student now paying $ 3,400 at four-year state_college and receiving equal amount in aid could face tuition increase to $ 4,800 and reduction in aid to $ 2,400 . cutbacks would affect about 300,000 students .
 lawrence van gelder column reports on plans for two movies about sars epidemic , reopening of rijksmuseum in amsterdam a month after asbestos was detected in parts of building , exhibition of robert_bateman paintings in greenwich , conn , 11th annual art chicago show and exhibition of richard_throssel photographs of crow_indians at smithsonian 's national_museum_of_american_indian in lower manhattan .
 rally in stocks in may , turnaround in credit derivatives and bet against value of euro all helped salvage hedge fund performance in may . outcome was far better than many investors expected after cut in general_motors credit rating to junk status on may 5 led to sharp drop in gm bonds and speculation that some hedge funds were caught wrong-footed . hedge fund research 's preliminary results show hedge funds rose 1.16 percent for month compared with decline of 1.52 percent in april . average hedge fund is up 0.35 percent for year -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 democrats are running many combat veterans in their struggle to win back congress in 2006 . nearly 100 veterans have entered congressional races . most are democrats , who present themselves as saviors of party . they are discovering that political battlefield may be as challenging as military one . political action committee , band of brothers 2006 , has been created to help over 50 democratic veterans running in congressional races .
 new_york republicans , stunned by losses in november elections , find hope in party 's strength on staten_island . rep vito_j_fossella , state sen andrew_j_lanza and assemblyman vincent_ignizio lead party that appeals to staten_island 's middle-class residents . democrats outnumber republcans by ratio of 4 to 3 , but staten_island voters are known to split their ticket , paying more attention to personalities of candidates than to party affiliation . republicans are believed to benefit from grooming of long list of young aspirants for office .
 englewood , nj , appeals to manhattan commuters with close proximity to city and highly diverse housing stock . town centre at englewood , featuring 188 extremely luxurious rental apartments opening in stages during spring_of 2007 , will compete with manhattan luxury rental prices . brownstones at englewood , similar project , is underway on former 14-acre industrial site .
 nation 's economic forecasters are all but unanimous in predicting that coming year will not bring recession , but high energy costs , cooling housing market and other signs point to slowing of economic growth . forecasters polled by philadelphia_fed believe economy will expand 3.4 percent next year , down from 3.6 percent this year . however , joseph_h_ellis of goldman_sachs says 2 percent growth is more likely , arguing that slowing of inflation-adjusted pay growth will hurt consumer spending .
 pres bush and his wife , laura , tour nazi death camps at auschwitz and birkenau in poland , and pres bush calls them sobering reminder of power of evil and need for people to resist evil , a comment clearly intended for european opponents of decisive military action against iraq . condoleezza_rice , his national security adviser , is more blunt in talks with european journalists , accusing america 's traditional allies of portraying us as perhaps even more dangerous than saddam_hussein .
 daniel_pelosi testifies at his trial for 2001 murder of r theodore_ammon in east_hampton , li . denies he wanted ammon dead or was after his money . says ammon 's estranged wife , generosa , who died in 2003 , wanted ammons murdered and asked him if he knew someone who would do it or if he would do it himself . says he was 40 miles from east_hampton , buying beer with friend , at about time of crime .
 long_island bus , which serves growing number of commuters who live in new_york_city and work in nassau_county , is running $ 4 million deficit that could force service cutbacks by july . fares cover only about one-third of cost of operating buses , so the more ridership rises , the more money must be obtained from state , county and metropolitan_transportation_authority , which generally haggle over how to divide costs . among proposals for long-term solution to budget battles is one calling for mta to take over long_island bus and combine it with other regional bus lines . photos . ridership graph .
 interview with thomas_h_wakeman_iii , who is stepping down from his job at port authority of new_york and new jersey , where he oversees $ 2 billion dredging program , to become principal maritime adviser to iraqi_ministry_of_transpotation , directing defense_department effort to repair iraq 's ports and clear its waterways of debris .
 michael_r_bromwich , washington lawyer who conducted independent review of houston police crime laboratory that was shut down in scandal in 2002 , issues first phase of his report . findings show dna section of lab was in physical ` shambles , ' and was operating for years without appropriate supervision . there were 19,500 untested rape kits , some dating back to 1980 , and backlog is still about 10,000 . other findings noted . police chief harold l hurtt and mayor bill white comment .
 san_francisco 's landmarks preservation advisory board is considering giving historic landmark status to first house built by henry_doelger , once country 's most prolific home builder . he built 24,000 remarkably similar houses in city 's fog belt from late 1920 's to early 1960 's . his identical ` little boxes ' once invited derision , but sally_b_woodbridge , architectural historian , says he built for average working man . originally sold or $ 5,000 each , doelger houses now go for $ 600,000 and more .
 article on nature conservancy 's photovoice project , in which more than 250 people from 60 villages in northern yunnan_province , china , all from ethnic minorities , have been given cameras to document their cultures and surroundings . some 45 photos from project are on display in voices from south of the clouds , exhibition at american_museum_of_natural history . three village photographers have been brought to new_york for cultural celebration .
 big deal column : hyatt_hotel_heiress_liesel a pritzker signs contract to buy $ 2.29 million condominium near columbia_university , where she is sophomore.tribeca apartment owned by fashion designer cynthia_rowley is served with lien by building 's condominium board for nonpayment of common charges . she contends she is victim of accounting error.rupert murdoch closes on his $ 44 million triplex at 834 fifth avenue.widow of composer cy coleman puts their sutton_place_town_house on market for $ 7.25 million .
 market place column on recent acquisitions in wine industry , including constellation_brands_inc 's takeover of robert_mondavi_winery for $ 1.3 billion and diageo 's acquisition of chalone group for about $ 260 million . merger at constellation has resulted in company edging past e_&_j_gallo winery to be biggest company in world , although gallo remains first in us in sales by case .
 joe sharkey_column_on_national_business_aviation_association_convention in orlando , fla , where 110 business jets were on display . says sales of business jets are surging , at prices from about $ 2 million to $ 45 million and more , and there are clear signs that business-jet phenomenon is spreading internationally . reports on embraer 's abandonment of commercial jet business to focus on corporate jet market .
 football season at w c mepham high in bellmore , li , is canceled following allegations that three varsity squad members sodomized freshman teamates while at training camp in preston_park , pa . one victim was so injured he needed surgery . no students or coaches have been suspended from school , but three students have been suspended from team .
 three americans are sentenced in kabul , afghanistan , to 8 to 10 years in prison for running private jail there and torturing prisoners . panel of three afghan judges rejects their claim that they were working for pentagon counterterrorist group . three are jonathan_k_idema , brent bennett and edward_caraballo . they say they were abandoned by their american masters when they became political liability . lawyers for americans try unsuccessfully to show videotape as evidence that idema had relationship with counterterrorism officials in american military . taped conversations handed out to journalists by lawyers could have provided evidence that men were working for some special unit with knowledge and cooperation of people in pentagon , but there is no immediate way to verify authenticity of tapes .
 final round of 2003 united states junior open chess tournament is held at suny_maritime_college in bronx . 110 players ages 21 and under , from as far away as india , compete . winner gets full scholarship to univ of texas at dallas and seat at 2004 us junior championship invitational in under 21 category .
 israel agrees to release 170 palestinian prisoners in what prime min ariel sharon calls good-will gesture to egyptian pres hosni_mubarak , who recently freed israeli citizen and got back six egyptians . palestinians fire rockets into israel from northern_gaza following two-day israeli raid to halt attacks from khan_yunis . likud and labor work out coalition that would retain sharon in office . one issue is shimon peres 's bid for second-ranking post .
 alabama_air_national_guard officials , responding to growing scrutiny of pres bush 's military record , have been searching for documents proving his service and informal search is also on among former members of 187th tactical reconnaissance group for anyone who remembers seeing bush in 1972 . interviews with some retired officers , pilots and senior enlisted men who served with 187th that year find strong support for bush , but no recollection of him .
 collaborative economics study for rauch_foundation finds number of patents issued to inventors in nassau and suffolk counties , ny , peaked at 937 in 1998 , dropped through 2001 and rose slightly in 2002 to 795 . falloff comes at time when number of patents has been increasing nationally . foundation holds decline undermines long_island 's claims for technological eminence and limits its appeal as business center .
 federal_communications_commission members michael_copps and jonathan_adelstein join musicians and mc janeane_garofalo on stage at 930 club in washington , dc , in last concert of three-week , 13-city tour called tell us the truth , to protest media consolidation . two vehemently dissented when fcc voted 3 to 2 in june to loosen media ownership caps . some musicians have argued that consolidation of recording labels and radio stations has homogenized music across country and stifled free expression .
 lt col michael_brian_wheeler of united_states_army is charged with smuggling hundreds of thousands of dollars in stolen cash from iraq and using it to buy machine guns , grenade launchers and other illegal arms later found in garage in north_carolina . he is third person to be arrested in widening investigation by special inspector general for iraq reconstruction . others are expected to be charged in what officials say was extensive bribery , kickback and smuggling scheme based in office of coalition provisional authority in hilla .
 real estate investor leslie_dick and developer sheldon h solow have filed separate suits contending that 2003 sale by conseco_of_general_motors building in new_york_city to developer harry b macklowe was rigged . at least two other bidders are considering suing . review of bidding for building , which sold for $ 1.4 billion .
 napoleon_bonaparte 's great-great-grandnephew charles_napoleon , political economist , has given up career in planning and finance to enter politics . he is second deputy mayor of ajaccio , corsica , position seen as jumping-off point for his next political contest : running for european_parliament next year . name recognition is no problem for him in country where no figure dominates political imagination more than napoleon_bonaparte .
 senate democrats filibuster to block janice_rogers_brown , carolyn_b_kuhl and priscilla_r_owen , pres bush 's judicial nominees . move comes after nearly 40 hours of debate in which republicans complain about democrats rejecting bush 's candidates . democrats have now blocked six candidates , contending they are conservative ideologues who are part of wider effort by administration to shift courts rightward . republicans are not able to muster necessary 60 votes to break filibuster .
 st paul_travelers companies surprises investors by postponing its earnings announcement until aug 9 while awaiting guidance from securities_and_exchange_commission on how to handle $ 1.6 billion write-off . one way of accounting for write-off would have resulted in profit of at least $ 775 million for second_quarter . other would have resulted in loss of at least $ 275 million .
 french court orders morgan_stanley to pay 30 million euros , or $ 38 million , to lvmh_moet_hennessy_louis_vuitton , ruling research by wall street bank defamed lvmh . case brought by lvmh contends that luxury goods analyst for morgan_stanley issued biased research to help its investment banking client gucci_group , lvmh 's biggest rival . verdict says morgan_stanley made numerous errors . critics of lvmh 's suit express concern that it will lead to analysts ' being afraid to criticize any company , point morgan_stanley raised in saying it will appeal . lvmh argues analysts can now feel free to speak without being under pressure from investment bankers at their firm .
 auto industry observers believe that kirk_kerkorian , one of general_motors ' largest shareholders , will want to place_jerome_b_york on gm 's board -- a threat to gm chairman rick_wagoner . kerkorian and york are in fact reprising their roles of decade ago , when kerkorian was chrysler 's largest shareholder and turned to york to be his right-hand man in what became unsuccessful and contentious takeover bid . people briefed on situation say several of gm 's assets are viewed as expendable , including parts of general_motors_acceptance_corp and saab and hummer_brands .
 fleeting season for desert truffles , species of mushroom family that is distantly related to their more pungent , far more costly european cousins , is now at its height . numerous varieties grow from morocco to saudi_arabia , but desert of syria and iraq produces two main types , both known by arabic name kamah . bedouins who frequent wide sand plains that begin just east of damascus and stretch to baghdad are scouring ground for telltale grasses and cracks indicating that truffles lie just beneath surface .
 united_airlines scrambles to revise its bid for $ 1.6 billion in federal loan guarantees . treasury department 's decision to let it make unusual third aid bid , chance denied other airlines , stirs political storm . treasury official says decision came after both white_house and house speaker j dennis_hastert spoke with sec john w snow . industry analysts say airline would remain financially shaky even with loan guarantees .
 spain 's most prominent investigative magistrate judge_baltasar_garzon calls on united_states to immediately close detention center at guantanamo_bay , cuba . warns that places like guantanamo delegitimize countries that respect laws . says spain is learning from experience of inquisition , its years under fascist dictatorship and later clandestine war against basque separatist group eta .
 pres bush reportedly authorizes american negotiators at multilateral talks in beijing to offer north_korea new but highly conditional set of incentives to give up nuclear weapons program . aid would begin when kim_jong il commits to dismantling plutonium and uranium weapons programs . china , russia , japan and south_korea would send tens of thousands of tons of heavy fuel oil every months , while us would offer ` provisional ' guarantee not to invade or try to topple kim 's government . kim would get only three months for preparatory period to seal nuclear sites . bush has been criticized by those countries and by democratic rival john_kerry for not making serious offer to north_koreans . new plan retreats on key point , with bush now agreeing to allow resumption of oil shipments , though not american oil , before north_korea actually dismantles anything .
 democratic vice presidential nominee sen john_edwards speaks to crowd , lawrence , kan , to make amends for failure of his campaign train to slow down there last week when several thousand people waited at station to cheer him . passes up long-planned day of campaigning with sen john_kerry in swing state of new mexico to appear in state democrats have little hope of winning .
 bush administration says united_states and its allies have begun campaign to disrupt terrorist operations around world , including arrest of suspected senior member of al_qaeda and 11 others in britain . british raid was prompted in part by same intelligence information that led administration to elevate terror threat level in us over weekend , including detailed reports about buildings of major financial institutions in new_york , new jersey and washington . american official says information stems in part from information gained after arrest last_month in pakistan of muhammad naeem_noor_khan , whose capture led central intelligence agency to computer files detailing reconnaissance of financial institutions in us . white_house_national_security adviser condoleezza_rice has reportedly called her counterparts in pakistan , saudi_arabia and jordan to request help from their intelligence services , and federal_bureau_of_investigation has intensified efforts to find any qaeda operatives inside us .
 nbc sports wins auction for united_states_media rights to 2010 and 2012 olympic games with record $ 2 billion bid , augmented by nearly $ 200 million deal for general_electric , nbc 's parent , to become worldwide olympic sponsor . is already set to pay $ 1.5 billion form 2006 and 2008 games . international olympic committee president dr jacques_rogge says ioc intentionally held auction before host cities were chosen .
 article on drive-in restaurants in new jersey reminiscent of 1950 's and 1960 's . rising costs and more stringent health laws have lead to decline , but some older drive-ins found ways to comply and new drive-ins are on the way . brett_denafo , 26 , who has opened stewart 's in northfield , credits sonic drive-in chain based in oklahoma_city with resurrecting drive-in restaurant with carhops .
 bristol-myers squibb co restates its financial results , largerly reflecting its move away from inventory practices that inflated its earlier figures . reduces revenue by about $ 2.5 billion and earnings from continuing operations by about $ 900 million for three_years_through 2001 . also adjusts its financial results upward for 2002 . reports earnings from continuing operations of $ 1.9 billion on sales of $ 18.1 billion in 2002 . company is under formal investigation by securities_and_exchange_commission .
 pentagon_reviews_defense_science_board report that reportedly undercuts air_force 's stand that it needs new tanker fleet immediately and suggests other options for air_force that do not involve controversial $ 23 billion proposal to lease airplanes from boeing for use as refueling tankers . probe into misconduct by boeing executives in tanker deal seen likely to doom deal 8 .
 ifc cos , owned by cablevision_systems_corp , plans to reopen waverly theater in manhattan 's greenwich_village , which closed in september 2001 , as complex containing three theaters , cafe and production facilities for filmmakers . ifc entertainment president jonathan_sehring says company hopes to make theater , which will be renamed ifc center , mecca for independent-film community .
 dispute over whether to postpone california gubernatorial recall vote spurs smoldering debate over whether poor and minority voters are disenfranchised by faulty and outdated punch-card voting machines . suit to postpone vote holds 81 percent of african-american and 67 percent of latino voters live in counties that still use obsolete machines , compared with 59 percent of white voters . even voting rights advocates admit far larger problem is that many minorities are not registered or motivated to vote . whites make up 51 percent of those eligible to vote in state , but 73 percent of those who vote .
 sheryl gay stolberg article notes that sen john_kerry returned to capitol just in time for pres bush 's second inauguration . says kerry 's return to senate -- two weeks after congress got underway -- seemed intended to make splash , as well as meet delicate problem of how to re-enter same political theater as president he fought so hard to unseat . kerry photo .
 article on rise in number of aspiring chefs who are attending programs offered by new_york_institute_of_technology in islip , suffolk_county community college in east_garden_city , wilson_tech in dix_hills and barry_tech in westbury as well as vocational education centers operated by suffolk and nassau_boards_of_cooperative_education .
 in final election results , broad shiite alliance led by two iran-backed religious parties wins slim majority of seats in national_assembly . 8.5 million people who voted , turnout of 58 percent , spread choices widely enough to assure that power in new government , and in drafting of new constitution , will have to be broadly shared among assembly 's 275 members , lessening possibility that religious shiite theocracy could emerge from elections . heavy kurdish voting in north and secular voting in baghdad and basra offsets alliance 's sweep in most of southern provinces , giving alliance 140 seats , only two-seat majority . alliance of country 's two main kurdish parties will hold about 75 seats , and party led by ayad_allawi , interim prime minister , will hold about 40 seats , largest bloc controlled by any individual leader . five seats will go to sheik_ghazi_al-yawar , one of handful of sunni leaders who did not boycott elections . three seats expected to go to group loyal to volatile shiite cleric moktada al-sadr . remaining seats will be scattered among eight other parties .
 bill willcutt , who manages more than 31,000 acres in remote phillips_county , montana , prepares to release into their ancestral home sixteen bison , seed stock for american_prairie_foundation 's project to re-create north_america 's ancient prairie . photos . nature conservancy , world wildlife fund and ted_turner are among others also working to restore great_plains , ecological phenomenon called mixed-grass prairie that stretches from southern canada to sandhills of nebraska . project proposed by professors frank and deborah_popper 1987 has won over opponents like former kansas gov michael_hayden , who now sees it as alternative to declining agricultural economy .
 article recounts story of battered diary , kept by florence_wolfson as teenager from 1929 to 1934 , that was fished out of manhattan dumpster and reunited with its author . wolfson , now 90 and living in westport , conn , with dr nathan_howitt , her husband of 67 years , comments on its discovery , her youthful ambitions and life as daughter of wealthy new yorkers .
 new museum of contemporary art in new_york , museum of contemporary art in chicago and ucla_hammer_museum in los_angeles raise $ 50,000 from american_center_foundation and $ 60,000 from peter_norton family foundation to begin program to commission , buy and exhibit work of emerging young artists . commission fiona_tan , patty_chang and aernout_mik , three relatively unknown young artists , to produce works that will be exhibited and owned jointly .
 new_york_city council speaker gifford_miller has visible pulpit and built-in constituency of 50 legislators , but disparate_group_of_relatively_inexperienced_council members with widely divergent agendas has hampered his ability to burnish his own image as leader who keeps troops in line and bloomberg_administration on its toes . photo . members ' attention-getting antics stem from term-limit system that offers no incentive for loyalty , although miller himself points to passage of 89 local laws under bloomberg and overriding of 15 mayoral vetoes , and members say they are grateful for chance at autonomy .
 former atlanta mayor william_c_campbell is sentenced to 30 months in prison for convictions of tax evasion and must pay $ 63,000 in back taxes on unreported income . trial caps seven-year fbi investigation into corruption that led to convictions of 10 contractors and officials , many of them campbell 's close associates .
 maison tropicale , small aluminum-paneled house built in 1951 by jean_prouve , french designer , is open to public in long_island_city for preview before being offered for sale at christie_'s . was conceived as utopian prototype for prefabricated housing for french colonial officials working in africa . eric_touchaleaume , french antique dealer , bought house and two others in 2000 . is selling house to finance prouve museum which will travel in another of the three houses .
 tom_ridge , who as first secretary of homeland security led post sept 11 effort to protect nation from terrorism , says he will leave post by feb_1 , or after successor is confirmed . ridge , seventh cabinet resignation since election day , does not rule out taking another job in bush administration or running for office but says he wants to spend more time with family for now , after more than three years of making ` hundreds of thousands ' of decisions to prevent attack . tenure reviewed . speculation noted on possible successors .
 hollywood is facing viewer fatigue for computer-animated movies as more than dozen such movies are being readied for release by next summer . analysts and industry executives have long warned of coming glut of computer-animated movies . some movies are failing to meet expectations or are flopping outright . this summer 's the wild from walt_disney_co proved anything but for moviegoers , bringing in only $ 37 million at domestic box office . biggest disappointment was the ant bully , produced by actor tom_hanks and distributed by warner_brothers_entertainment . film brought in only $ 27 million . recent debut of sony_corp 's open season brought in $ 23 million over past weekend . only coming weeks will tell whether it will be widely embraced by moviegoers . both pixar , recently acquired by walt_disney_co , and its main rival , dreamworks animation , continue to dominate animation genre because their brands are widely known and highly regarded , but even those studios are feeling pinch . some upcoming animated films discussed .
 national assn of securities dealers charges that about 200 brokers at h_&_r_block_financial_advisors_inc defrauded investors by selling them $ 16 million in enron_corp bonds five weeks before enron collapse without disclosing high-risk nature of investment . will seek disgorgement of profits and restitution for customers . block earned about $ 500,000 on sales .
 thousands of nurses across india are studying for special licensing examinations that will qualify them for better-paying jobs in us , where acute shortage of nurses has sent hospitals scrambling to recruit abroad . recruiters are focusing on india as sources of supply in philippines , ireland and canada dry up , opening first major migration route to us for skilled professionals since collapse of internet boom cooled demand for india 's technology workers .
 sen kerry and pres bush campaign in battleground state of iowa . kerry attacks bush 's handling of terrorism , deriding him as stubborn and failed leader who has compromised nation 's safety . bush assails kerry as not comprehending importance of iraq war . exchanges have become almost daily occurrence as campaigns devolve into nasty argument over iraq .
 article on late german photographer helmut_newton who , shortly before his death last_winter at 83 , established helmut_newton_foundation in former prussian_army officers ' club in berlin . one of opening shows is photographic diary of his life , which he created with his wife june , a photographer who works under name alice_springs .
 democratic presidential candidate sen john_kerry enjoys mutually supportive relationship with senior massachusetts_sen_edward_kennedy despite some differences and rivalry in past . kerry came of age enthralled by john and robert_kennedy and worked on ted_kennedy 's first senate campaign in 1962 . kerry and kennedy trade jokes before iowa caucus and kennedy offers practical advice on campaigning .
 house republicans defeat attempts by democrats to block new tax cuts that would increase nation 's already swollen federal budget deficit . action comes before house approves $ 2.4 trillion budget by vote of 215 to 212 . vote sets up showdown in senate , which has approved requirements that any new tax cuts over next five years must be passed by at least 60 votes , unless they are offset by increases in other taxes or by spending cuts .
 security forces in iraq have captured two senior aides to abu musab_al-zarqawi , most wanted militant in iraq . government spokesman says zarqawi 's top bomb-maker and his propaganda chief are in custody . announcement comes hours after suicide car bomb explodes near headquarters of prime min ayad_allawi 's political party , wounding 14 people . iraqi police report gunmen assassinated iraqi judge in eastern_baghdad . american soldier dies in roadside bomb attack .
 editorial observer by verlyn_klinkenborg on powder river_basin in wyoming , most active region of coal-bed methane drilling in nation , where more than 50,000 wells will be drilled in next few years to obtain , at most , year 's supply of natural gas . says extracting coal-bed methane means draining groundwater that is often charged with toxic salts . says process has demoralized landscape of power river_basin , and caused bitterness that may never be repaired .
 article on some of close to 50 companies , lured by lower rents , financial incentives and sometimes views , that have moved from midtown manhattan to wall street area in last two years . rents in midtown are hovering around $ 50 a square foot , compared with average of $ 35 in lower manhattan . hip health plan vice president william_lewis says move to 55 water street was strictly economics . factors that firms must consider include changes in commuting time , security issues and construction associated with replacing buildings lost in world trade center attack .
 interview with gavin_menzies , amateur british historian whose new book , 1421 , argues that chinese discovered america 70 years before columbus . menzies says zheng he , chinese eunuch admiral also known as sin_bao , made seven major sea voyages that became legendary , even in west , as voyages of sinbad the sailor . holds that zheng set sail in 1421 , and his famed treasure fleet junks were five times larger than columbus 's caravels . each junk held a thousand men . menzies claims that two years later , in 1423 , seven ships returned . says that then , in decision that would change all of history , ming emperor ordered all the ships dismantled . he pensioned off sailors , and burned all the records .
 securities and exchange commission reaches settlement with tyson_foods and its former chairman donald_j_tyson over misleading disclosures surrounding $ 3 million in perquisites and personal benefits that company gave to mr_tyson , his wife and friends from 1997 to 2003 . mr_tyson and company settle sec 's suit , neither admitting nor denying wrongdoing . company will pay $ 1.5 million penalty for violations while tyson will pay $ 700.000 .
 remaining world war ii veterans , estimated at some 4.3 million , are dying at rate of about 1,200 a day , along with 300 from korean war and 200 from vietnam era . their remains are arriving at veterans cemeteries in numbers that veterans affairs expects will continue to grow until daily losses peak in 2008 . kinship , not savings to their families from free burial , draws most who choose veterans cemeteries . only about half of 120 national cemeteries for veterans in 39 states have space for coffin burials . states have met demand by opening 76 added veterans cemetries like one in arneytown , nj . photo .
 jane e brody personal health column discusses growing impact of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on american life . 35 million americans have disease and although smoking is declining , death from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease has risen and is now fourth leading cause of death in us . typical patient is between 45 and 64 years of age and smoking accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all cases . chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is described and treatment options are discussed . there is no cure for disease .
 pride and sense of community is emerging in hong_kong , city of immigrants . it is manifesting itself in everything from new interest in old buildings to willingness to call for free elections . city 's democracy movement plans huge march . this has unnerved beijing , which sees parallels to much more developed independence movement in taiwan . china 's foreign_ministry has accused united_states_senate of interfering in china 's internal affairs with its recently passed resolution supporting democratic reforms in hong_kong .
 jurors in trial of tyco_international 's former chief executive l dennis_kozlowski and chief financial officer mark h swartz tell judge_michael_obus that they may have reached impasse , saying ` the atmosphere in the jury room has turned poisonous ' . wording of two notes sent to obus indicates that one juor may be holding out for acquittal while 11 others favor conviction on at least some of 32 charges . disclosure creates possibility that obus could be forced to declare mistrial if jurors are unable to reach consensus . copy of notes sent to obus .
 virtually all shareholders could suffer if impending stock offering by orbitz_stumbles_except_orbitz chairman-chief executive jeffrey_g_katz because he has unusual clause in his contract that pays him cash bonus that would grow as other shareholders ' losses mounted . orbitz 's owners plan to sell shares for about $ 23 each . if price of those shares do not change for first 30 days of trading , katz could collect almost $ 585,000 . but if they dropped quickly to $ 18 and stayed there for 30 days , amount katz could claim could grow to almost $ 1 million .
 $ 3.4 billion dispute between russian government and yukos_oil_co reaches decisive point , when court bailiffs take extraordinary step of freezing company 's bank accounts and demanding payment in full within five days . yukos officials say action threatens to shut company . offer to sell major block of stock to pay tax claim that yukos holds in sibneft , competitor that has tried and failed to merge with last year . government sharply raises ante in dispute hours before freezing company 's account , indicating it might double its demand for back taxes from yukos by adding charges for 2001 to case . original $ 3.4 billion claim relates to 2000 tax year .
 yahoo reports brisk growth in its third-quarter revenue from online advertising and fees from its broadening relations with providers of high-speed internet service . net income was $ 253.8 million compared with $ 253.3 million year earlier . revenue was $ 1.33 billion , up 47 percent from year ago . total advertising revenue was $ 1.16 millin , up 46 percent for year .
 bank of canada is expected to lower its main interest rate from 2.75 percent to 2.5 percent , seeking to ease pain of strong canadian dollar on exporters and link its economy to recovery in us . canadian currency has soared from record low of 62 cents in january 2002 to almost 79 cents last_week , increase of 27 percent .
 nike , with 39 percent share of american athletic footwear market , revives sales with reworked line of flashy skateboarding shoes . photo . teenagers are again scooping up high-priced sneakers , bringing stock price gains for nike as well as reebok , with 11.9 percent share of us market , and other manufacturers . analysts link nike 's strong stock to smart marketing , frequent shoe updates and prudent management .
 interview with martin_tankleff , who is serving 50 years to life for murder of his parents , seymour and arlene_tankleff , at their home in belle terre , li , in 1988 . he is optimistic that new evidence will clear him . cites discrepencies in investigation and prosecution at his first trial , especially concerning jerard_steuerman , who owed seymour tankleff money . notes that investigator in case , james_k_mccready , and shari_rother , tankleff 's half-sister , both had something to gain by tankleff 's conviction .
 multibillion-dollar hospital construction boom is under way in california 10 years after northridge earthquake devastated los_angeles_county . new seismic safety requirements have prompted many hospitals to modernize . new building for st john 's health center in santa_monica is designed to withstand severe earthquakes . hospital will begin admitting patients to sleek new arc-shaped building in early december .
 floyd norris_column on $ 1 million fine levied against goldman_sachs for earlier practice by spear_leeds_&_kellogg , which it now owns , of flipping initial public offering shares . nasd executive vice president barry_goldsmith says spear leeds appears to be only firm on wall street that adopted strategy of evading disclosure policies set up by securities_and_exchange_commission .
 late ronald_reagan is remembered for leadership and optimism by pres george_w_bush , former british prime min margaret_thatcher and sen john_kerry . former presidents gerald_r_ford , george h w bush and bill_clinton and california gov arnold_schwarzenegger also remember him fondly . all stress his optimism , confidence and efforts to keep america at forefront of fight for freedom of people everywhere . people gather outside reagan home in bel air section of los_angeles and at funeral home to pay tribute .
 new jersey tranist expects to get approval from federal_transit officials to begin preliminary engineering work on constructing second two-track tunnel under hudson_river into manhattan . second tunnel will allow for significant increase in number of amtrak and new jersey transit trains entering and leaving new_york_city . new tunnel will go to proposed moynihan station and basement at macy_'s .
 four companies submit bids for vivendi_universal 's entertainment assets , but most intriguing development is statement of interest by fifth -- nbc_unit_of_general_electric_cop . nbc is said to want vivendi cable businesses -- usa_network and sci-fi channel -- and film and television studios . other bidders are liberty media , led by john_c_malone , investor groups led by edgar_bronfman jr and marvin_davis , metro-goldwyn-mayer and viacom .
 federal judge_michael_b_mukasey_sentences_cheng_chui_ping to 35 years in prison for running one of new_york_city 's most lucrative immigrant smuggling rings . cheng financed 1993 voyage of freighter golden venture , which ran aground in queens with nearly 300 immigrants aboard , 10 of whom died after leaping overboard to make land .
 at least 67 people , including dozens of looters siphoning gasoline from government pipeline , are killed in explosion in diwaniya after fuel vapor is accidentally ignited by cigarette lighter . explosion appears to be result of what one official calls ` power vacuum ' created by battle in diwaniya between iraqi_army and heavily armed members of mahdi_army , militia controlled by moktada_al-sadr . more than 100 people are killed or found dead across iraq over 24-hour period .
 financial scandal at school district in wealthy long_island community of roslyn widens with suspensions of supt frank_a_tassone , who has been accused of stealing more than $ 1 million , and accounting clerk debra rigone . school officials are investigating possible links between employees and companies that have done business with district and trying to determine whether companies set up by rigano and tassone ever billed district for expenses . scandal was touched off when district acknowledged in march that former superintendent pamela_c_gluckin was allowed to resign quietly in 2002 when school funds were missing . originally thought to be $ 250,000 , officials are now investigating $ 7.8 million in questionable transactions .
 george p shultz op-ed article on pres nixon 's campaign to see that brown v topeka_board_of_education was enforced in 1970 when school segregation faced determined opposition in seven southern_states . notes work of biracial committees that he , shultz , helped form in each state . recalls that vice pres spiro_t_agnew wanted no part of effort and urged nixon not to put himself on the line .
 bloomberg_administration program will allow 20 private schools in new_york_city to pay $ 52.4 million over next 20 years to refurbish sports fields on randall 's island in exchange for exclusive control over some fields during after-school hours . opponents , especially manhattan borough president scott_m_stringer , complain plan is unfair to neighborhood children . city will pay remainder of $ 70 million cost of fixing fields .
 pres bush nominates white_house counsel and longtime political loyalist albert_r_gonzales to be next attorney general . speed with which nomination is made indicates bush wants to get new appointees in place before start of his second term . if confirmed , gonzales would be first hispanic in post . choice is embraced by senate republicans , but democrats appear eager to question gonzales , who is considered more conservative than several other leading candidates . among most contentious confirmation issues are memorandums written by gonzales or his aides providing legal arguments to support administration 's claim that geneva conventions do not apply to detainees from afghanistan war . career highlights and biographical information .
 issue of iran remains delicate within bush administration , which has identified it as major threat . defense sec donald_rumsfeld dismisses speculation about military action , while one of pres bush 's senior policy advisers addressing group of academics and outside strategists calls it quandary for administration . iran 's announcement that it has succeeded in enriching uranium is bound to heighten escalation of threats between washington and tehran .
 documents filed in connection with class-action lawsuit arising from collapse of worldcom reveal that j p morgan , deutsche_bank and bank_of_america expressed misgivings about worldcom 's financial soundness in early 2001 just months before they helped company sell $ 12 billion in debt -- misgivings that were not disclosed to investors who bought debt . worldcom bonds recently traded at about $ 350 , down from offering price of $ 1,000 . it is up to courts to decide whether signs of company 's deteriorating financial condition should have been disclosed to investors . banks all ended up losing money they lent to worldcom after it sought bankruptcy protection .
 pres bush 's $ 674 billion economic stimulus plan draws surprising support from finance_committee chairman sen_charles_grassley , who earlier said that eliminating dividend tax , centerpiece of plan , would be tough sell in congress . comments follow white_house meeting with president , other republican senators and karl rove , bush 's top political adviser .
 maureen_dowd op-ed says pres bush is turning to two trusted members of first pres bush 's war council , james_baker and defense secretary nominee robert_gates . says robert_gates is considered pragmatic and has much different style than defense sec donald_rumsfeld . says baker and gates have been working on plan for iraq and now have receptive audience .
 daimlerchrysler of germany and peugeot of france report sharply lower profits , while investors brace for bleak earnings report expected from volkswagen . daimlerchrysler , hobbled by $ 1.1 billion operating loss at its chrysler division , reports profits fell 90 percent in second_quarter from year-earlier period . peugeot reports 12 percent decline in its net income . renault manages to post increase in profits , thanks to buoyant results at nissan_motor , in which it has 44 percent stake . fact that france 's second-largest carmaker depends on its japanese partner to salvage its numbers underscores ills affecting europe 's auto industry . earnings detailed .
 julio pabon keeps alive memory of baseball hall of fame great , roberto_clemente with memorabilia at his sports clubhouse in bronx . says clemente , who died in plane crash in 1972 while delivering emergency supplies to earthquake victims in nicaragua , is folk hero to many puerto ricans . clemente 's son roberto_jr , sports announcer , will join eliezer_rodriguez on trip that recreates mission to nicaragua .
 yale_university asst prof wes_davis op-ed article holds that anglo-irish prankster horace_de_vere_cole should be considered patron saint of april fool_'s_day . notes that his most famous prank was dreadnought hoax in 1910 , when cole and several friends , including virginia_woolf , tricked british navy into believing that he was emperor of abyssinia , who had arrived to inspect home fleet .
 north_korea conducts its first missile launching test in three years , apparently seeking attention as roh_moo_hyun is inaugurated as president of south_korea . us officials say test was of short range tactical missile and express no alarm . kim_dae_jung , south_korea 's departing president , rebuffs us call for multilateral talks with north_korea and urges direct dialogue between us and north_korea .
 wall street economists richard_bernstein , abby_joseph_cohen , david_bianco , abhijit_chakrabortti and ethan_s_harris are cautious about economy in 2007 . they expect at least some slowdown in economic growth . many are concerned that housing 's slump will spread to other parts of economy . analysts surveyed predict that standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index , which closed 2006 at 1,418.30 , will end 2007 at 1,440 to 1,570 .
 tens of thousands of autoworkers walk off job at mercedes-benz plants across germany , intensifying already bitter dispute between daimlerchrysler and its union . more than 20,000 workers strike plant in sindelfingen , where company has been trying to eliminate hourly breaks in effort to cut labor costs . carmaker is seeking to reduce labor costs by 500 million euros -lrb- $ 617 million -rrb- a year . workers have offered cuts worth 180 million euros -lrb- $ 222 million -rrb- .
 floating island , artwork sketched by artist robert_smithson more than 30 years ago , sets sail around manhattan . smithson died in 1973 , three years after conceiving idea . group including smithson 's widow nancy_holt worked to solve numerous design problems of art piece , which features 10 trees , 3 huge rocks , shrubs , rolls of sod and tons of dirt on barge towed by tugboat around island .
 los angeles authorities charge aaron m hammer , 24 , in killing of yetunde_price , half-sister of tennis_champions_serena and venus_williams . police seek four other possible suspects . sheriff 's deputies say hammer is associate of street gangs but not gang member . williams family issues statement praising price and mourning her death . shooting occurred in compton , area that has long played enorous role in los_angeles crime statistics .
 gretchen_morgenson column on reduction in american_life_insurance_co 's capital and surplus due to drop in share price of its parent company , american_international_group . notes that american life had net position of 61 million aig shares at end of 2004 and that those shares have lost 19.8 percent of their value since then . says that as with enron_corp , this case shows problems that can result when company has too much of its capital tied to its parent company 's stock price .
 army_corps_of_engineers grants 50-year , rent-free lease on 280 acres of lakefront property at skiatook lake in oklahoma to statesource llc in deal critics say violates federal rules requiring private developers to pay fair market value to lease land from corps along 456 lakes in 43 states . say deal is also notable since company chief ronald_w_howell is prominent republican fund-raiser , lobbyist and is finance chairman for sen james_m_inhofe , oklahoma republican who is chairman of senate_committee on environment and public works .
 harvey and bob_weinstein negotiate separation agreement from walt_disney_company , which acquired their miramax film studio in 1993 for $ 80 million . miramax generated $ 4.5 billion in american ticket sales for disney and won 53 academy awards , but weinsteins and disney argued bitterly over huge losses from defunct talk magazine , ballooning movie budgets and disney 's refusal to release fahrenheit 9/11 . neither side will emerge from breakup as clear winner .
 european_commission contemplates granting approval to proposed mergers between sony and bmg and emi and time_warner . commission ruled in 2000 that no further mergers could take place between five major record companies of europe , but may assent to one or both in light of impact on profits of falling compact disk prices and illegal music piracy .
 new_york_city ban on smoking in restaurants and bars goes into effect at midnight . violations issued this month have been essentially toothless warnings , but fines will now take effect . penalty for first violation is $ 200 to $ 400 with graduated amounts , leading to license revocation for third violation in one year .
 joe_jamail , university_of_texas_alumnus who has donated $ 21.7 million to university , has one statue at law school and his name on several campus sites . another statue of jamail is scheduled to be unveiled inside football stadium before annual game against texas_a_&_m . statue makes jamail only person with two on campus , and that distinction has rankled some faculty members .
 number of former houses of worship in manhattan are being converted to non-religious uses . among projects is rhapsody , 22-apartment condominium building at 127th street in harlem in former home of gospel_temple_church_of_america . at 233 east 17th street , former convent will offer 13 luxury condominiums priced from $ 1.58 million to $ 4.95 million .
 director julie_l_gerberding says centers for disease control and prevention explores ways to import influenza vaccine from europe and redistribute supplies to meet any united_states shortages , news conference . says us manufacturers cut output to 83 million doses this season after discarding 12 million of 95 million doses they made last year . says shortage seems to exist in some regions .
 group called progress for america is likely to play leading role in support of pres bush 's supreme court nominee samuel a alito jr . group started working months ago to create more than two dozen web sites promoting various potential candidates . when bush 's announcement came , it took just 39 minutes for group to introduce slick web site and begin lobbying for alito 's confirmation in senate . it expects to spend at least $ 2 million on television advertisements supporting alito and responding to any attacks by democratic groups . group receives millions of dollars from pres bush 's largest fund-raisers , is run by former bush campaign aides and draws heavy support from republican lobbying and consulting firm in washington . it often functions like unofficial extension of white_house , advancing bush 's policies alongside republican national committee .
 all four of largest banking groups in japan return to black in first half of their fiscal year , in sign that japan 's biggest banks may have turned a corner . all four posted record losses last year . banks benefit from improved economy . bank groups are mizhuo financial group , sumitomo_mitsui_financial_group , mitsubishi_tokyo_financial_group and ufj_holdings .
 at the movies column . zeitgeist films , tiny independent distributor based in soho_loft , celebrates oscar award to nowhere in africa , which won for best foreign-language film . german production directed by caroline_link is about jewish family that flees to kenya to escape nazis . zeitgeist founders nancy_gerstman and emily_russo comment . photo . aaron_eckhart explains differences between his role in jon_amiel 's fantasy adventure the core and his work in neil_labute films . stevie , documentary about filmmaker steve_james , is latest in long line of politically engaged documentaries from kartemquin . co-founder gordon_quinn comments .
 article on john_mcelroy , former english graduate student who , through his gaslight production co run out of his home in larchmont , ny , has become award-winning producer of audio books . mcelroy , 40 , works on about 40 to 50 books a year , ranging from abridging them to producing recordings , including the cat in the hat read by kelsey_grammer , john_steinbeck 's the grapes of wrath read by dylan_baker and bill_clinton 's autobiography , my life , read by clinton .
 author john_burdett op-ed article holds that it now seems possible that john_mark_karr did not murder jonbenet_ramsey and is attention-seeking ` western drifter ' in thailand . holds that karr was on run from arrest warrant issued in sonoma_county , calif , and ended up in bangkok because he is apparently obsessed with sex .
 sana toma suleiman , senior iraqi oil official , is shot and killed in mosul after surviving two earlier assassination attempts . insurgents have been tenacious in attacking oil infrastructure of iraq and people crucial to state-run industry . killing comes as violence continues in hot spots around iraq . confusion continues to swirl around fate of two italian aid workers kidnapped from their homes in baghdad on sept 7 . fate of another hostage , kenneth_bigley of britain , remains unknown .
 article on sequel to mein kampf , dictated by adolph_hitler in mid-1928 to nazi_party 's publishing director max_amann . book , published in german after hitler died , has been translated into english by krista_smith and university_of_north_carolina emeritus professor gerhard_weinberg and is being published by enigma books as hitler 's second book : the unpublished sequel to ` mein kampf ' . book offers new details on hitler 's policy on south_tyrol and his need to go to war with us .
 fbi agents and police detectives unearth several parts of human skeleton , along with wristwatch and pair of glasses , in what they believe is old mob graveyard in vacant lot in queens . discoveries are made near where body of alphonse_indelicato , bonanno crime family figure , was found in 1981 . investigators say bones most likely belong to one or both of two other bonanno captains , philip_giaccone and dominick_trinchera .
 coast_guard and fish and wildlife service officials say hundreds of birds , turtles and fish probably died from effects of 30,000 gallons of crude oil that leaked from athos i , which was ripped open as it tried to dock at citgo terminal in paulsboro , nj . spill left oil slick 24 miles long . ducks and geese coated in crude oil are taken to john_heinz_national_wildlife_refuge in tinicum , pa , by volunteers trying to save them .
 bechtel prepares to begin rebuilding iraq 's only deepwater port , at umm qasr , top priority in contract that could total $ 680 million . second priority for bechtel is restoring electric power , especially in baghdad . company plans informational meetings for potential subcontractors . fluor_corp forms joint venture with amec_of_britain to seek contracts .
 op-ed article by john_s_burnett , who is writing book about relief workers in combat areas , says attack on united_nations compound in baghdad was bound to happen , given that it was such a soft target . recalls visit to baghdad this summer in which he saw vulnerability of un workers , whose only solace was thought that no one would want to attack unarmed civilians working to help put iraq back on its feet .
 islamist terrorist group , led by abu_musab_al-zarqawi , posts internet message announcing beheading of second american hostage , presumably jack_hensley . photos of hensley and of blast damage in baghdad . body of eugene_armstrong is found near his home in baghdad . us military opens intense operation in sadr_city slum , attacking moktada al-sadr ` s fighters . two marines reported killed in anbar . us soldiers raid sadr office in najaf , arresting some dozen aides .
 geoffrey_davis loses bid for new_york_city_council seat of murdered brother , james_e_davis . winner is letitia_james on working families party line . photo . democrats michael_e_mcmahon and tony_avella hold onto seats . council speaker gifford_miller easily defeats republican challenger jennifer_arangio . tallies in city council and staten_island district attorney races . ballot proposal for nonpartisan elections in city is defeated , 70-30 percent .
 japan 's econony grew at annual rate of 2.2 percent in third_quarter , better than expected , as exports and capital spending continued to buoy nearly two-year-long recovery . growth rate in gross domestic product was almost twice what economists expected , though slower than revised 3.5 percent expansion in april through june period . most private economists agree with bank of japan 's recent assessment that economy will grow about 2.5 percent in 2004 . capital investment grew at annualized rate of 11.7 percent , while exports rose 11.5 percent . consumer spending , which makes up 55 percent of economy , rose 0.2 percent .
 subway map for many lines between brooklyn and manhattan is redrawn now that 18-year restoration of manhattan bridge is completed and four tracks can again operate over span . service must take into account changing demographics and passenger 's needs since 1986 . planning for new routes took two years and will affect 600,000 riders .
 craig_kellogg article pays tribute to design research , whose late founder benjamin_thompson developed concept of selling contemporary designs in clothing and home goods under one roof . harvard square flagship store in cambridge , mass , open from 1953 to 1978 , had open , multilevel interior and featured bold , eclectic displays that presaged pottery barn and crate & barrel . photos . thompson , who lost entire investment in 1978 bankruptcy , went on to design faneuil_hall_marketplace in boston and south street seaport in new_york -lrb- special section , home design -rrb- -lrb- part 2 of 2-part section -rrb- .
 annika sorenstam , first woman to play pga tour event since 1945 , shoots one-over-par 71 at colonial_country_club , tying for 73d place among 114 players who begin bank_of_america_colonial . she is seven holes behind leader , rory_sabbatini , and has realistic chance to achieve her stated goal : making 36-hole cut that is reserved for top 70 players and ties .
 op-ed article by kareem_abdul-jabbar holds that 81-point game by kobe_bryant of los_angeles_lakers should stand alongside wilt_chamberlain 's 100-point game as one of greatest individual feats in national_basketball_association history . contends that bryant 's performance was more impressive than chamberlain 's because of variety of ways bryant scored .
 minneapolis theater company shakespeare on the cape will stage tennessee_williams play the parade , or approaching the end of a summer , originally written in 1940 and revised in 1962 . will be presented as part of williams_festival in provincetown , mass . play reveals williams writing about his sexual desires quite openly , not as self-loathing gay man .
 merck asks for dismissal of first vioxx personal injury lawsuit scheduled to come to trial , contending man who died of heart attack after being prescribed vioxx never took drug . says man 's widow has repeatedly lied and produced false evidence . suit was filed in august 2003 in ashland , ala , by cheryl_rogers , widow of howard_b_rogers . contends rogers died from heart attack on sept_4_, 2001 , after taking vioxx for shoulder pain .
 china , in its seemingly bottomless demand for electricity , plans to build nuclear power reactors on scale and pace comparable to most ambitious nuclear energy programs world has ever seen . current plans call for new reactors to be commissioned at rate of nearly two a year between 2005 and 2020 . china 's eight nuclear reactors supply less than 2 percent of_nation 's current demand . critics question whether such small payoff warrants exposure to risk of catastrophic failures , nuclear proliferation , terrorism and unresolved problems of radioactive waste disposal .
 daimlerchrysler 's chief executive dieter_zetsche says cerberus_capital_management , with its financial skills and huge investment in chrysler , plus continued minority shareholding by daimler offered ` best possible future setup for chrysler ' . says it was becoming clear last fall when chrysler 's sales deteriorated and carmaker tumbled into losses that there was was no longer case for keeping daimler and chrysler together . says new daimler will be well-capitalized carmaker focused on two of fastest-growing segments of market . predicts that mercedes will give bmw run for its money .
 university_of_new_hampshire survey center poll gives sen john_kerry slight edge in election in state where only 25 percent of registered voters are democrats . ` undeclared ' or independent voters have grown in 20_years_from_27 to 38 percent , and poll shows this group favoring kerry by wide margin . kerry campaign is eager to win state 's four electoral votes .
 members of america 's far left gather at columbia_law_school to celebrate publication of no surrender : selected writings of an anti-imperialist political prisoner , by david_gilbert , who is prison sentence for his role in brink 's truck robbery in rockland_county , ny , in 1981 . gilbert 's son , chesa_boudin , urges guests on in lifetime struggle for freedom . no one mentions guard and two police officers killed in robbery .
 arts briefing column . michael_gramaglia and jim_fields documentary end of the century , about musical group the ramones , is to be released in new_york on august 20 with nationwide release to follow . raw , also about ramones , will be released on september 28 . rob_reiner reportedly will direct as yet untitled , updated version of the graduate starring jennifer_aniston and shirley_maclaine .
 ibm announces it will fight suit brought by sco group over allegations that ibm infringed sco license by copying code from unix operating system to freely-distributed linux system . sco , which has attempted to build its own linux-based business , has shifted strategy to focus on aggressively enforcing its licensing rights to unix , acquired in 1995 from novell . thus far sco has signed licensing agreements with two companies , one of which is microsoft .
 noyack equity group acquires former st_agnes_hospital in white_plains , ny , for $ 21.4 million in foreclosure sale by state_dormitory_authority . hopes to build housing for elderly on site . property was owned by archidiocese of new_york , which shut its door in 2003 , leaving dormitory authority with outstanding debt that included $ 36 million in bond issued to st_agnes .
 election day has come and gone , which opens drive to remove more than 20 million campaign signs from american landscape . photos . officials in at least nine states have imposed curbs on how long signs can be left out , with delaware charging campaigns $ 25 for each day they are not removed and virginia deputizing volunteers to remove signs from highways . two restaurant chains offer incentives to customers to turn in signs and campaigns are buying them back . other such efforts noted .
 news analysis : huge problems facing pres bush and north korean leader kim_jong - il are responsible for deal that could lead north_korea to disable its nuclear facilities . bush administration has been divided for years between those who wanted to negotiate with north_korea and those who refused . bush has now sided with sec of state condoleezza_rice and her chief negotiator christopher_r_hill , in hopes that he will be able to claim desperately needed diplomatic triumph . kim made strategic mistake when he set off nuclear explosion near chinese border in october , angering china and prompting them to side with us . nuclear experts agree that hardest bargaining lies ahead . bush 's problem is that kim may be playing administration for time .
 britain , france and germany have negotiated voluntary , temporary agreement with iran to suspend uranium enrichment , but say permanent cessation depends on bush administration signaling willingness to be part of final accord involving economic incentives and security guarantees for iran . some americans officials feel european attitude may be well intentioned but naive and based on misreading of iran 's intentions . us wants entire international community , including europe , russia and china , to present united_front and force iran to make deal or face consequences . also insists that iran suspend support for terrorist activities .
 senate_finance_committee is set to hold hearings on tax shelters that , committee aides say , will feature testimony that tax cheating continues unabated and that numerous crackdowns announced over past two years by irs have had almost no impact . hopes to use hearings to force congress to finance serious assault on tax cheats . congress has tightly restricted irs spending on auditors , criminal investigators , training and new technology while many of agency 's most qualified auditors have left in past five years . consultant 's report prepared for irs is expected to show that corporate tax cheating in 2000 cost government $ 14 billion to $ 18 billion .
 bush administration predicts that government will account for nearly half of all nation 's health care spending by 2014 . says total health spending will double in decade , to $ 3.6 trillion , while gross domestic product grows more slowly . says result will be that health spending will constitute 18.7 percent of economy by 2014 , up from 15.4 percent last year .
 ford_motor_co top executives have privately endorsed aggressive goal of reining in emissions from automaker 's vehicles by 2030 , joining companies like bp and toyota in approaching issue as business opportunity rather than regulatory chore . ford 's goal would require improvement of about 80 percent in fuel economy of its cars and trucks by 2030 . goal was laid out by chairman william_clay_ford jr and other executives at aug 3 meeting at headquarters in michigan .
 haiti 's 40-year love affair with brazilian soccer has grown to obsessive proportions over past decade , and extends to all things brazilian . united_nations peacekeeping force in haiti is anchored by 1,200 brazilians in capital of port-au-prince . brazil 's national soccer team , accompanied by pres luiz_inacio_lula_da_silva , will arrive there to play exhibition against haiti on aug 18 . haitians can not conceive of notion that haitian team could win against brazil .
 ukraine 's presidential election ends virtually in dead heat , after campaign that international election observers called biased and marred by widespread irregularities . prime min viktor f yanukovich receives 40 percent of vote to replace pres leonid d kuchma , putting him less than 1 percentage point ahead of viktor a yushchenko , kuchma 's foremost critic . count will force runoff on nov 21 .
 caryn_james_critic 's notebook on director elaine may . notes that may was lionized for her work with mike_nichols as part of nichols and may comedy team , but has also been castigated for megabudget flop ishtar . film society of lincoln_center 's film comment selects series is currently screening four films she directed .
 article traces rise and fall_of_hedge_fund_gotham_partners under management of william a ackman and david_p_berkowitz . gotham began in 1993 with $ 3 million and ballooned its assets to $ 568 million peak in 2000 . devastating setbacks and investors ' demands for cash redemptions led managers to resort to questionable tactic now under government investigation of praising pre-paid legal services stock and then dumping holding of stock . gotham is closing down and investors likely face heavy losses .
 dan_barry , in about new_york column , notes that john_duffy , who lost brother , michael , and kieran_lynch , who lost two brothers , farrell and sean , in terrorist attack on world trade center were brought together by mutual friend , paul_murphy . says duffy was friends with farrell_lynch and named his newborn girl farrell_ann_duffy .
 bush administration releases report citing china 's alleged violations of world trade organization policy , such as maintaining barriers to free trade and subsidizing domestic industries to compete with foreign importers . america 's record $ 13.5 billion trade deficit with china is leading to increased pressure in congress to take steps to force china to comply with wto rules . key areas of contention involve trade practices in manufacturing and agriculture , pirating of copyrighted material and refusal by china to float currency .
 sen john_kerry charges at national_guard conference that pres bush , who addressed group days earlier , lied to them when he presented optimistic picture of war in iraq . contends that bush lives in ` fantasy world of spin , ' ignoring his own intelligence reports that present bleak picture of prospects in iraq . kerry 's comments are in sharp contrast to optimistic outlook on iraq that bush has been presenting on campaign trail . vice pres cheney quickly strikes back at kerry , saying he can not make a decision , and that his position on iraq war is influenced by headlines of the day . white_house_press secretary scott_mcclellan seeks to play down difference between bush 's optimistic public statements about iraq and gloomy intelligence estimate referred to by kerry .
 news analysis notes that avian influenza outbreak on nigerian chicken farm in mid-january marked first time a -lrb- h5n1 -rrb- virus had been reported in africa . united_nations is scrambling to form medical and veterinary surveillance and response teams , but is deeply worried because africa is ill-equipped to deal with epidemics and because outbreak came only one or two months before birds begin migrating north to europe . confusion about avian flu is rife in nigeria .
 state lawmakers approve first tax credit to benefit film and television production in new_york , and many in the industry say incentive will help lure more film productions to city and state and counter flight of film jobs to canada . legislation commits state to contributing $ 25 million annually for four years in offering 10 percent tax credit on so-called below-the-line production costs , largely for blue-collar workers and crew members . in addition , measure would permit new_york_city to contribute as much as additional $ 125 million annually to tax credit program .
 domestic caviar accounts for 60 percent of american market and lewis_shuckman is one of several southern fishermen and seafood sellers in missouri , arkansas , kentucky , georgia and tennessee who have carved out places for themselves peddling paddlefish roe . roe sells for $ 10 to $ 20 per ounce compared with $ 50 for least expensive imports . seafood industry newsletter the wave says it is among fastest growing sectors of seafood market as it gains wider acceptance . converts say taste is similar to more expensive russian caviar , term which is reserved only for roe from sturgeon . armen_petrossian , president of international_caviar_importers_assn in paris , disdains paddlefish , but some caviar snobs are easily fooled .
 jury in london rules in favor of film director roman polanski in libel suit brought against vanity fair magazine . orders magazine to pay 50,000 pounds sterling -lrb- $ 87,700 -rrb- in damages and substantial portion of polanski 's legal costs . article by lewis_lapham about elaine 's restaurant asserted that polanski groped and sweet-talked scandinavian model beatte_telle in august 1969 while enroute to funeral of his murdered wife , sharon_tate .
 shirin_ebadi , 56-year-old iranian lawyer , becomes first muslim woman to win nobel peace prize . is recognized for her work promoting rights of women and children in iran . has spent three decades advancing human rights in iran and fostering dialogue between hard-liners and reformists . by giving ebadi this award , nobel_committee is sending message to muslim world that islam and human rights can go hand-in-hand . announcement gets mixed reaction in iran .
 oil futures for june delivery surge to new high of $ 75.17 per barrel in new_york trading , capping record-breaking week on commodity markets . oil markets remain tight , with worldwide demand at 85 million barrels per day . many analysts fear diplomatic standoff between western powers and iran over its nuclear program could spin out of control and affect iran 's oil exports .
 article on changes to latest miss america pageant in atlantic_city , nj , which will be hosted this year by chris_harrison . abc has ordered that telecast be shortened from three hours to two , that talent portion be significantly truncated and that finals be one-on-one showdown between two finalists in style of american idol .
 in three years since michael_r_bloomberg succeeded rudolph_giuliani as mayor of new_york , city has spent close to $ 2 million to settle lawsuits brought by residents and city workers who accused giuliani administration of retaliating against them for exercising free speech or other constitutional rights . totals for such claims could grow , as several remain outstanding . while city is sued more than 20,000 times each year , cases are rarely brought in which mayor is accused of personally harming someone . details of several cases noted .
 stravinsky festival for dance theater workshop will feature piece choreographed by yvonne_rainer . 71-year-old rainer was founding member of judson_dance theater and helped usher in postmodern dance of early 1960 's . she left dance in 1970 's and only returned once to choreography in 2000 . new piece is 17-minute dance for four women , featuring stravinsky score agnon , originally created for george_balanchine 's 1957 ballet .
 competition for office buildings leased to single tenant has heated up as investors fleeing stock market have sought safer havens for their money and many corporations have been persuaded to sell their buildings and lease them back . real capital analytics says $ 2.7 billion in so-called single-tenant property valued at $ 5 million or more changed hands in second_quarter_of_year , increase of 40 percent over sales voluem of second_quarter_of 2001 . some recent transactions discussed .
 philadelphia 's navy yard creates challenge for developers and commercial real estate firms due to downtown area 's 12 percent vacancy rate and site 's isolation . retailer urban outfitters will move all 650 of its employees into navy yard . developers hope high-profile anchor tenant 's $ 50 million renovation of four historic buildings will attract further development at 1,000-acre site .
 william_kissel says fatal stabbing of his son andrew in basement of his home in greenwich , conn , is culmination of many difficult years . says andrew , who was scheduled to plead guilty to charges of bank fraud , will be buried next to his brother robert , investment banker who was drugged and beaten to death by his wife in hong_kong in 2003 .
 stephen_holden critic 's notebook column on rendez-vous with french cinema , french film series that runs through march 21 at lincoln_center . briefly reviews bruno_dumont 's twentynine palms , michael_haneke 's time of the wolf , guillaume_nicloux 's hanging offense , gilles_marchand 's who killed bambi . , merzak_alouache 's chouchou , antoine_de_caune 's monsieur n and others . schedule .
 sec of state_colin_l_powell , arriving in ankara , says us is preparing new request for help from turkey in sustaining american military operations in northern iraq and that cooperative response will help win congressional approval of $ 1 billion in aid for turkey requested by pres bush . says he will also press turkey to speed food , medicine and other relief supplies through its territory to iraq .
 passage of california 's proposition 71 , ballot measure authorizing $ 3 billion in spending on human embryonic stem cell research , may propel state into center of huge new industry that could create jobs and bring hundreds of millions of dollars in patent royalties to state . importance of initiative became even more pronounced with re-election of pres bush , who opposes federal funding of human embryonic stem cell research . among companies best positioned to benefit from california initiative are advanced cell technology , stemcells , aastrom_biosciences and geron .
 amtrak president david_gunn , unveiling budget in washington , dc , requests $ 18 million to begin rebuilding bridges over niantic_river and pattagansett_river in east lyme and thames_river in new_london . says bridges have become so unreliable that passenger service in northeast corridor between new haven and boston may have to be halted .
 beverage digest says sales of caffeine-laden energy drinks , which sell for $ 2 to $ 3 a can , have grown 61 percent this year in us . energy drinks , which have become $ 3 billion business since their introduction in us_eight_years_ago , are expected to accelerate profit growth for beverage industry more than any other drink category in next few years . energy drinks have as much sugar and about three times caffeine of soda , ans some experts peg their popularity to their additiveness . critics say drinks are fostering caffeine addiction among teenagers . energy drink manufacturers say they do not market to children and their products have no more caffeine than typical cup of coffee . four countries have barred sale of energy drinks with current levels of caffeine : france , denmark , norway and argentina .
 army appears likely to approve first new armored vehicle in two decades , stryker , but pentagon defers financing for final two of six proposed brigades built around it . stryker brigade combat teams are bridge between army 's aging fleet of tanks and infantry fighting vehicles and future combat system of high-tech armaments still on drawing board . stryker 's approval would be unusual victory for gen eric_k_shinseki , departing_army chief of staff .
 north_korea agrees to resume nuclear disarmament talks , first sign of easing tensions since nuclear test . china says six-nation talks will reconvene after hiatus of more than year . us envoy christopher_hill says they could begin this month or next . photo . china scrambled to reopen diplomatic channel even while joining us and other powers in supporting un sanctions . analysts suspect kim_jong - il is agreeing to forestall tough enforcement and get china and south_korea to ease north 's growiong economic woes . sec condoleezza_rice plays down impact of test , saying ` nobody accepts ' that north is nuclear power . hill and north korean counterpart kim_kye-gwan reportedly met secretly in beijing to hash out terms of resuming talks .
 fourth article in occasional series about how 2006 campaign is playing out in colorado 's seventh congressional district , which is evenly balanced among democrats , republicans and independents . surveys show that ed_perlmutter , former democratic state senator , is in command of his race against his republican opponent , rick_o'donnell , in contest to succeed rep bob_beauprez , republican who is running for governor . o'donnell has sought to emphasize hard line on immigration and raise specter of democratic tax increases while perlmutter has pressed need for change in republican-controlled washington and emphasized stem-cell research . perlmutter and his democratic allies have worked to tie o'donnell to bush administration and unpopular war .
 long island journal column : unitarian universalist fellowship , after more than three decades , decides to make this year 's annual renaissance faire in huntington its last . participants and organizers comment . tred barta , 51 , sport fisherman and big game hunter whose search for a wife was chronicled in december 2002 column , has become engaged to annie_mitchell , 55 , representative for ski company from vail , colo .
 european commission threatens to fine microsoft more than $ 2 million a day unless it agrees to share more technical information with competitors . warning is latest salvo in commission 's increasingly acrimonious dispute with microsoft over just what company must do to comply with 2004 antitrust ruling by eu . move also points to growing gap between antitrust policies of us and europe .
 arrest of warren_jeffs , fundamentalist mormon polygamist leader , is welcomed by deloy_bateman of colorado_city , ariz , 3 of whose 17 children severed all communications with him six years ago when he defied church command to turn over four children for assignment to another family . other church members are following jeffs 's orders to say nothing to media .
 executives at abc and parent company disney are mulling future of grey 's anatomy star isaiah washington after he publicly uses anti-gay slur for second time in roughly three months . situation has potentially great implications for abc , which is reaping millions of dollars in advertising revenues from show that , in its third season is among highest rated on television . abc and touchstone , disney 's television studio , have called washington 's behavior ` unacceptable ' . washington has publicly apologized for remarks .
 britain prepares for possible war alongside united_states in iraq , and oxford_union , one of britain 's oldest and best-known student bodies , holds debate about whether united_states itself is biggest threat to world peace . every speaker , those for and those against war in iraq , express awe at america 's unbridled power now aimed at iraq . after two hours of debate , there is narrow 195-to-151 vote in america 's favor .
 sprint is near deal to acquire nextel communications for over $ 34 billion in transaction that would further consolidate rapidly changing telecommunications industry . merger would create powerful new cellular company , with some 39 million customers . it would also mean that 74 percent of cellphone market would be controlled by cingular , verizon_wireless and sprint . executives say several details still need to be worked out and deal could fall apart . sprint chairman gary d forsee would be company 's chief executive and nextel chief timothy_donahue would be executive chairman .
 article on three-year-old battle between ronald_protas and martha_graham center of contemporary dance over rights to martha_graham 's works . us court of appeals recently supported federal district court ruling that graham did not own most of her dances . protas , to whom graham left everything in her will when she died in 1991 , says he is determined to fight , to supreme_court if necessary . martha_graham dance company will perform graham 's classic embattled garden as part of six-night dance festival at city center .
 selena roberts sports of the times_column_discusses_michigan_university 's decision to make chris_webber , former michigan and current sacramento kings player , pay school back for receiving thousands of dollars in gifts from boosters . webber has been asked to pay michigan $ 650,000 in damages for his behavior nearly 10 years ago .
 symbolic measure in senate says bush administration plan to send more troops to iraq runs counter to national interest . democratic sens_joseph_r_biden jr and carl_levin , and republican sen chuck_hagel propose non-binding resolution . white_house says it has no effect on bush plan to send more than 20,000 additional troops to iraq .
 randy_kennedy column on samuel_tobet 's successful 1987 lawsuit to require metropolitan_transportation_authority to pay him for 79 new_york_city subway tokens whose currency lapsed with fare increase in 1985 . notes that judge who ruled in his favor was louis_b_york , now state_supreme_court_justice , who has just ordered mta to roll back fares .
 bob_herbert op-ed column says new_york jets owner robert_wood_johnson iv wants publicly owned property turned over to him to build stadium for his privately owned franchise , and he wants city and state to use hundreds of millions of taxpayers ' dollars to help him realize his dream . says he is getting help from fellow billionaire mayor michael_bloomberg . says spending more than $ 2 billion on sports stadium is insane .
 many iraqi shiites say moktada al-sadr , radical young cleric , has threatened authority of four grand ayatollahs who hold sway in holy city of najaf and who have until now counseled 15 million shiites to remain patient with foreign troops . radicals have killed five americans in two weeks , but sadr appears to have overestimated his appeal and underestimated loyalty to ayatollahs , especially ali_sistani .
 shiite militiamen storm sunni mosques in baghdad and baquba , shooting guards and burning down buildings in apparent retaliation for bombings that killed more than 200 people day before in capital 's largest shiite district . iraqi security forces were absent , unwilling or unable to stop attackers . anti-american cleric moktada al-sadr , who controls one of biggest blocks in parliament , threatens to boycott government if prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki meets with pres bush in jordan . sunni residents blame sadr 's militia for attacks .
 administration officials say mayor michael_r_bloomberg is spread so thin with fund-raising commitments that he may not be able to raise $ 85 million needed to bring 2008 democratic national convention to new_york . many democrats nationwide feel new_york is logistically better prepared than denver , its rival , to pull off successful convention .
 cayuga indian nation settles lawsuit against new_york state over 64,000 acres in cayuga_lake area in exchange for revenues from proposed $ 500 million gambling casino in monticello . tribe will receive $ 279 millon over 14 years starting in 2007 . will also be allowed to purchase 10,000 acres within disputed area . seneca and cayuga counties will receive $ 3 million a year each from state and tribe for 21 years .
 article on giant life-like sculptures of farmers and farm hands by artist john_cerney at farm , agricultural_education_center and demonstration farm in salinas , calif , owned by crown packing co . cerney , who has been creating giant plywood people in fields and on storefronts all over monterey_county , calif , for 22 years , comments on his work .
 new_york waterway , largest private ferry company in region , collected nearly $ 360,000 in federal grants designated for businesses that suffered losses from sept 11 terrorist attacks , even though ridership on ferries doubled not long after attack . contends that it suffered more than $ 8.6 million in losses from sept_11_through_end_of 2001 . is under investigation on separate issue of whether it defrauded federal government of hundreds of thousands of dollar for subsidized ferry services between hoboken , nj , and lower manhattan after sept 11 .
 internet search engine google continues to resist public stock offering that could generate billions of dollars and front-page attention . larry page and sergey_brin , founders , who own some 40 percent of google , are reportedly less interested in cashing out than they are in maintaining their ability to direct google 's ambitious strategy and idiosyncratic style . john_doerr_of_kleiner_perkins_caufield_&_byers and michael_moritz of sequoia_capital_partners , who financed venture and own 25 percent of company , are said to favor offering .
 article on new_york antiques dealers james_sansum , 36 , and his employer and benefactor , helen_fioratti . manhattan district attorney robert_morgenthau has charged sansum , owner of james_sansum fine and decorative art gallery , with stealing $ 160,000 worth of art , antiques and books from fioratti , owner of l ' antiquaire and the connoisseur , and with defrauding her gallery of some $ 400,000 in personal expenses . sansum says good relations with fioratti family began falling apart in 1999 when he became romantically involved with decorator markham_roberts .
 future for brass bands , mardi gras indians and other neighborhood music traditions destroyed by flooding in new_orleans following hurricane katrina looks bleak . trumpeter kermit_ruffins , who played weekly gig at vaughan 's bar in bywater neighborhood , and monk_boudreaux , chief of golden_eagles , one of 40 or so secretive mardi gras tribes known for flamboyant feathered costumes and competitive parades , offer their views on what may become of their musical traditions .
 africa live , two-day mega-concert in dakar , senegal , sponsored by roll back malaria , is african effort to raise money and awareness to fight malaria , which yearly kills well over one million people worldwide , most of them children . malaria is relatively easy to prevent and treat , but eats up 40 percent of public health spending and costs developing countries $ 12 billion a year in lost productivity . profits will largely come from broadcast and videos of concert .
 taiwan pres chen shui-bian plans referendum calling on china to withdraw ballistic missiles aimed at taiwan and demanding that china renounce use of force against island . insistence at holding referendum is likely to heighten tensions and comes at awkward time for united_states , as pres bush prepares to receive china 's prime min wen jiabao at white_house . china has urged us to oppose what it sees as chen 's desperate election season gambit .
 greenland , which is melting at higher rate than any computer models or scientists had predicted , is changing shape as new land appears from under ice . dr dennis_schmitt , berkeley , calif , explorer and discoverer of one of several greenland islands that appeared during melt , discusses what region may look like in twenty years . journal of climate study recently reported that greenland is single largest contributor to rise in global sea level . researchers weigh in on importance of studying greenland over next decades .
 bush campaign has turned john_kerry 's inartful explanation of his stance on financing iraq 's reconstruction -- that he voted for $ 87 billion before he voted against it -- into devastating punch line for advertisement claiming kerry is indecisive and weak on defense . contends that kerry is flip-flopping washington insider unqualified to lead nation in wartime .
 marines and special forces soldiers raid nine ramadi homes , capturing 17 men suspected of working with iraqi insurgency , including two midlevel leaders and senior aide to man believed to be organizing guerrillas in city . one of those taken is described as lawyer for muhammad daham abid , one of most wanted men in ramadi . he has organized insurgent cells and is in close contact with mujahedeen in rebel stronghold of falluja , 25 miles away .
 army opens criminal investigation into shooting death of iraqi civilian by us soldier in kufa in may . says it has opened 85 criminal investigations involving detainee abuse , including deaths and assaults , in afghanistan and iraq since aug 2002 . that represents increase from 69 investigations that had been opened as of early may .
 nato agrees to increase forces training iraqi soldiers , but six members refuse to take part , drawing irritation of sec gen jaap de hoop scheffer and sec_colin_powell . at meeting in brussels . nato will expand training staff to 300 officers from 60 , with poland , hungary and netherlands contributing so far . min joschka_fischer insists germany is firm on refusing to participate .
 corporate scandals are focus of several trials in downtown manhattan . john_j_rigas , 79-year-old founder of adelphia_communications , is set to on trial along with two of his sons , timothy_and_michael , on federal charges of looting adelphia of more than $ 1 billion . martha_stewart 's trial is in same complex of federal courthouses on pearl_street . l dennis_kozlowski is on trial in state court a few blocks away .
 helicopters crisscross skies over northern_los_angeles_suburbs , dropping water on barreling blaze in santa_monica_mountains . photo . map . one of bigger wildfires expands east of san_diego , destroying more than 100 homes and threatening hundreds more . many of expensive new housing developments are in areas well known as tinderboxes , especially in dry fall months when santa_ana winds suck moisture from scrub brush .
 article in series examining the challenges and aspirations of young people in countries around the world notes that anna_rauwald , marleen_merk and sarah_liepert , 15-year-old girls from hohenwarthe , germany , are the first generation to grow up in former east germany without any experience of either the nazi or communist past . holds that they look at the future from a point midway between the high expectations of a united germany and the sense of limitation imposed by reunification 's failures , especially persistent high unemployment .
 paul j hill dies by lethal injection in starke , fla , 9 years after he calmly shot and killed abortion doctor and his volunteer escort outside pensacola clinic . hill is first killer of abortion provider to be executed in united_states . abortion rights advocates fear what hill 's followers have hinted for months , that his death will cause new wave of violence against abortion clinics . debate over abortion in florida is expected to intensify in coming months .
 metropolitan transportation_authority is set to unveil design of $ 750 million fulton street transit center for lower manhattan , which will link nine subway lines at four stations . design calls for concourse under dey street that will connect with world_trade_center_transportation_hub . center will rise 110 feet at top of its glass and steel dome and have 50-foot-high glass-box pavillion to harvest daylight for dark platforms . photo . diagram .
 neal_shapiro , president of nbc_news since 2001 , has told his superiors at network that he would like to leave his post . request comes weeks after jeff_zucker , president of nbc_universal_television_group , helped engineer dismissal of tom_touchet , executive producer of today show , in response to that program 's rapidly falling ratings lead over rival good morning america on abc .
 developers izak_senbahar and simon_elias are building condominium apartment tower on charles street , lower manhattan , with interiors designed by richard_meier . developer harry_coco_brown has completed first house in sagaponack , ny , enclave and begun work on four more on 33 lot subdivision . brooklyn 's tallest building , williamsburgh savings bank building , is up for sale by hsbc_bank_usa . winning bidder is likely to convert landmarked building to luxury condos .
 article on the people 's temple , play by leigh_fondakowski and greg_pierotti , margo_hall and stephen_wangh about jim_jones and his religious cult and political movement . fondakowski , who is directing play , comments on extensive research undertaken for project , including interviews of survivors . play will soon open at berkeley repertory theater in california .
 defense lawyer mark_geragos tells jury that scott_peterson may be boorish and a cad for having had an affair , but that he did not murder wife laci and their unborn child . opening statement in trial in redwood_city , calif , suggests baby may have been born alive and well after laci_peterson was reported missing dec_24_, 2002 .
 patents column on issues involved in crediting inventors for their work in light of two recent court decisions : one invalidating patents granted to jerome_h_lemelson for bar code scanners and machine-vision technology and another upholding $ 521 million judgment against microsoft_corp for infringing patent of michael_doyle , founder of eolas_technologies , covering software that enables user to call up several separate applications within single internet browser window .
 senior republicans in congress said to be outraged that bush administration has proceeded with deal to help india build civilian nuclear power plants without involving congress , which will have to change one or more laws to make deal viable . india developed nuclear weapons program in secret over several decades , and 1978 law forbids nuclear-energy assistance to nations with nuclear weapons .
 billy crystal serves as emcee of fundraiser for democratic presidential nominee-to-be john_kerry at walt_disney_concert_hall in los_angeles . event , which raised $ 5 million for kerry_and_democratic_national_committee , features duet by barbra streisand and neil_diamond , performance by willie_nelson and tributes by ben_affleck and host of other celebrities .
 police chief william_j_bratton sets off furor in los_angeles by proposing that police officers should stop responding to burglar alarms , 97 percent of which are false , unless alarms are first verified as genuine by property owners or private security company using patrol to see if there are signs of break-in . false alarms cost police nationwide an estimated $ 1.5 billion a year and account for 10 percent to 25 percent of all police calls . salt lake_city , las_vegas and eugene , ore , have already adopted plans similar to one bratton proposes . false alarms are caused by several factors , including pets , inadequate training of homeowners , dead batteries , faulty installation and even cobwebs . experts say part of problem is that private alarm companies sell services and then , in essence , shift their costs onto police .
 natural gas prices set record , pointing to sharply higher heating bills for majority of americans this winter and soaring costs for makers of plastics and chemicals , which use natural gas as their main fuel and raw material . price of natural gas has doubled since beginning of summer . recent estimates by energy dept show that americans are likely to pay roughly $ 400 more for their natural gas this winter , with average bills jumping to $ 1,130 . natural gas prices for november delivery close at $ 14.196 a thousand cubic feet , gain of 9.6 cents on new_york_mercantile_exchange .
 david_carr column on rachael_ray says she offers alternative to martha_stewart and oprah winfrey approach to domestic perfection . holds her tv program 30-minute meals , along with other budget travel and dining shows , attract more than 11 million food network viewers each week . says everyday with rachael_ray_magazine is expected to have circulation of 1.7 million by next year . adds ray has sold nearly five million of her 16 cookbooks . says professional chefs criticize ray for being sloppy cook and not being serious about craft but admit she has appeal for masses .
 new_york state comptroller alan_g_hevesi , california treasurer phil_angelides , calpers president sean_harrigan and other leaders of states ' giant public pension funds , angered by new_york_stock_exchange chairman and chief executive richard_a_grasso 's huge pay package , urge him to resign . hevesi holds getting $ 200 million from those he regulates compromises grasso 's effectiveness .
 members of congress are questioning telecommunications corporations about their role in national_security_agency 's domestic surveillance program . sens edward m kennedy and russell_d_feingold have asked chief executives of at&_t , sprint and verizon to confirm or deny report in usa today that said telecommunications executives had identified at & t , sprint and mci -lrb- part of verizon -rrb- as partners of agency .
 habitat for humanity built fairway oaks development in jacksonville , fla , in 2000 . army of 10,000 volunteers , including former pres jimmy_carter and rosalynn_carter , built 85 low-cost houses in just 17 days . more than 50 fairway oaks homeowners are currently having problems with their houses . they fear that blitz construction was shoddy and that their land , adjacent to two former town dumps , is unstable or contaminated .
 ringwood_state_park in northern new jersey has toxic waste dump that seems to defy cleanup . closed section of park is part of 500-acre federal superfund site in passaic_county that was supposedly cleaned up decade ago , after ford_motor_co removed about 7,000 cubic yards of paint sludge it had dumped there from its mahwah production plant . environmental protection agency has called company back three times to remove more of sludge . company is currently cleaning site again .
 excerpts from new books about or set in new_york_city : the last men out : life on the edge at rescue 2 firehouse by tom_downey . the art of the steal : inside the sotheby 's - christie_'s_auction_house scandal by christopher_mason . shut up he explained : the memoir of a blacklisted kid by kate_lardner . william_sloane coffin jr : a holy impatience by warren_goldstein . and ca n't take it with you : the art of making and giving money by lewis b cullman .
 four people are found shot to death in lot in newark on nov 25 after they return to bar that three of them -- carmen_estronza , camilo_reyes and jarmeil ward -- allegedly robbed on oct_27 . kyhron_ward , jarmeil 's brother , who was not involved in robbery , is other victim .
 audit of nassau_county -lrb- ny -rrb- correctional facility finds overtime costs rose to $ 20 million in 2003 from $ 10.3 million in 2000 . 32 correction officers earned over $ 50,000 in overtime pay in 2003 . county comptroller 's office rebukes sheriff edward_reilly and his department for racking up thousands of hours in compensatory time , violation of county regulations . sheriff 's office says that cutbacks in staff and increase in number of prisoners since 2000 contributed to increase in overtime .
 jonathan a knee reviews following books : 24 days : how two wall street journal reporters uncovered the lies that destroyed faith in corporate america by rebecca_smith and john_r_emshwiller . and the smartest guys in the room : the amazing rise and scandalous fall of enron by bethany_mclean and peter_elkind .
 thomas_middelhoff , former head of bertelsmann_ag and now chief executive of german retailer karstadtquelle , is confident he can turn around retailer 's finances . schickedanz family , heirs of quelle 's founder gustav_schickedanz , owns 50 percent of shares and is aggressively buying more . quelle merged with karstadt in 1999 . middelhoff , who has known family matriarch madeleine schickedanz since he was 17-year-old student working at quelle in summer job , says he welcomes family 's stock purchases as vote of confidence in his turnaround plan .
 many nassau_county homeowners believe their homes are over-assessed and thus overtaxed despite country 's efforts to correct past inequities . about 100,000 residents , one-quarter of all homeowners in county , have protested their property tax assessment this year . court-ordered property revaluation that was completed in 2002 was first comprehensive revision of tax rolls in nearly 65 years .
 min dominique_de_villepin , after meeting with members of iraq 's interim governing council , paris , says france will work with other nations to forgive unspecified part of iraq 's immense foreign debt if various conditions regarding iraq 's sovereignty and stability are met . offer , conciliatory gesture to united_states as well , comes day before james_a_baker_iii is set to arrive in paris to ask french aid in easing iraq 's debt burden . avoids appearance of answering us call .
 insurgents kill three british soldiers and wound one in basra , iraq . ethnic tensions lead to deaths of at least three turkmen in kirkuk . l paul_bremer_iii , iraq 's top american civilian overseer , says it is problem that american forces did not have sort of intelligence that would have warned about aug 19 bombing of united_nations headquarters in baghdad . says any attempt to reimpose some fresh tyranny in iraq will fail .
 secretary of state condoleezza_rice offers reassurances to pres vladimir_v_putin of russia and to listeners of popular moscow radio station that united_states would not supplant russia 's influence in its neighborhood despite growing american friendship with other countries in region . rice continues to suggest that russia do more to foster economic and political freedoms . says she told putin that seizure of yukos oil conglomerate and prosecution of its executives ` shook people 's confidence ' in russia 's transition to democracy and free economy .
 article on some of families in westchester_county , ny , who have started charitable organizations after their children faced life-threatening illnesses . family members of jimmy_arena of purdys , who died at age 6 of malignant brain tumor , danny_potocki , 17 , of pelham , who at 4 contracted leukemia and jacob_sontag , 10 , of harrison , who has canavan_disease , comment on foundations they have formed and money that has been raised for their own and other children .
 thousands of iranians with lasting injuries are painful reminders of long-lasting effect of iraq 's use of chemical weapons in iran-iraq conflict that ended 15 years ago . muhammad_moussavi , who was volunteer in war with iraq , recalls that iraq 's mustard gas affected his body even though he was wearing gas mask . he will be tethered to oxygen tank for remainder of his life . there is deep resentment and anger in iran that it was western companies that helped iraq develop its chemical weapons arsenal in first place and that world did nothing to punish iraq for its use of chemical weapons throughout war .
 new_york_city police dept fires veteran narcotics detective luis_nieves-diaz , who was about to retire with lucrative disability pension , after concluding that he helped another detective steal $ 250,000 in drug money in 1995 . theft was one of series of crimes uncovered in broad corruption investigation that began last last year . it is being conducted by us atty roslynn_r_mauskopf , police dept 's internal_affairs_bureau and fbi . nieves-diaz , who will forfeit his tax-free disabiilty pension , denies any wrongdoing .
 joint nato and afghan investigation finds that nighttime nato air attack killed 31 civilians in southern afghanistan . this is highest civilian death toll since nato took over security , when it promised to win support and bring stability to south . lt gen david_richards , british commander of nato forces in afghanistan , says 70 percent of population in south is unsure whether to support taliban or country 's american-backed government .
 article on folk musicians who live and work in westchester_county , ny , in light of tribes hill music festival , which is set to open in valhalla . notable folk-oriented performers with national followings include christine_lavin , dar_williams and richard_schindell . local musicians with established followings include kathleen_pemble and k j denhert . up-and-coming artists include marc_von em and fred_gillen jr .
 vice pres dick_cheney lashes out at critics of bush administration 's iraq policy , speech , heritage_foundation . holds that arguments against war are naive and dangerous . remarks come at end of contentious week that included pres bush 's announcement of reorganization to give white_house more control over iraq occupation , public spat between defense_sec_donald_h_rumsfeld and national security adviser condoleeza_rice over control of mission and growing violence in iraq .
 bush administration experts and intelligence officials say they expect north_korea , in next few weeks , to turn on yongbyon processing plant , which could produce weapons-grade plutonium . international atomic energy agency head dr mohamed elbaradei says restarting facility would be ` disaster ' and that it would permit country to produce several atomic bombs in half a year . several us officials have been warning top bush administration aides that current white_house approach is failing and that administration will have to negotiate directly with north_korea -- step that bush refuses to take unless north_korea begins first to disarm .
 members of new_york 's congressional delegation are urging congress to extend dec 22 claim filing deadline for relatives of sept 11 terrorism victims . 1,800 families , or only 60 percent of those eligibile , have so far filed claims on behalf of relatives killed at world_trade_center , pentagon and aboard hijacked airliner that crashed in pennsylvania . government has dispensed average of $ 1.7 million per family for total of $ 1.1 billion for death claims , far less than expected $ 5 billion . 1,600 injured people have filed claims , small fraction of thousands of rescue workers and bystanders who are believed to have been hurt .
 pataki_administration approves rent assistance plan worth $ 60 million a year that will help families in new_york_city leave homeless shelters or avoid eviction , while setting time limit of five years for how long they can collect subsidies . approval amounts to victory for bloomberg_administration , which in october ended practice of giving federal rent vouchers to families in shelters . city and state will each put up $ 20 million to finance program , with about $ 18.8 million coming from surplus federal funds .
 candidates in handful of new_york legislative races are taking on legislative leadership , calling for ouster of assembly speaker sheldon_silver and coming down squarely against senate leader joseph_bruno . say voters resent albany 's autocratic style of government and so-called ` three men in a room ' decision making , which refers to bruno , silver and gov george_pataki .
 robert d novak , longtime conservative columnist and pundit who has rarely shied away from controversy , is uncharacteristically circumspect central figure in federal investigation into who leaked name of cia agent valerie_plame . photo . chronology of his comments on issue . novak revealed name in july 2003 column about her husband , joseph_wilson , who had debunked bush administration 's claim that pre-war iraq sought uranium in niger . he refuses to say if he is among journalists subpoenaed by grand jury and has spoken dismissively about legal threats facing judith_miller of the new_york_times and matt_cooper of time . colleagues and media ethics observers are divided on his responsibility .
 draft manual for pentagon lawyers includes substantial changes to military tribunals established to prosecute foreign terror suspects , including strengthening rights of defendants , establishing more independent judges and barring confessions obtained by torture . proposals , modeled on manual for courts-martial , resulted from high-level discussions late last year including pentagon , white_house and national_security_council officials following federal judge_james_robertson 's nov 8 ruling tha t commissions could not legally try one of first defendants . administration 's willingness to restructure tribunals is uncertain , and vice pres dick_cheney is said drive opposition .
 three of six likely democratic presidential contenders -- sen john_kerry , rep richard a gephardt and former gov howard dean -- campaign across iowa , speaking confidently about their 2004 prospects to undoubting audiences . white_house aides seek to counter such expressions of optimism but noting that pres bush 's approval rating is close to 60 percent in some polls , but even some of bush 's allies express concern about re-election campaign in such volatile times .
 kevin_coyne jersey column on clifton_councilman_antonio_latona , who is awaiting court decision on whether he can hold two public jobs at once . latona , who was elected in may and sworn in on july 1 , took leave of absence from fire department , where he had worked for six years and earned about $ 75,000 annually . job as councilman pays $ 4,000 a year .
 doctors are mobilizing nationwide lobbying campaign to stave off cuts in their medicare fees as congress hunts for ways to rein in soaring cost of program . bush administration says medicare will cut payments to doctors by 4 percent to 5 percent in each of next six years because of quirk in federal law . doctors say they would be less likely to treat medicare patients if cuts take effect because reduced payments would not cover cost of care .
 senate republican leaders offer $ 2.6 trillion 2006 budget proposal that calls for extending $ 70.2 billion in expiring tax cuts over next five years , not $ 100 billion in extensions pres bush seeks . sen judd_gregg , budget_committee chairman , says he seeks to extend cuts in capital gains and dividend taxes , which are set to expire in 2008 . some moderate senate republicans express concern about extending cuts at time when deficit is at record high and domestic programs face steep cuts . senate budget , like bush and house versions , promises to cut deficit in half in five years . democrats dismiss claim , holding extending tax cuts would increase deficit . fight over taxes and spending will be key test of bush 's strength on capitol hill .
 thomas_friedman op-ed column from davos world economic forum welcomes debunking of last year 's big ideas : bush administration 's belief that it could pull off regime change in iraq alone , france 's illusion of using anti-us sentiment to become supreme power in europe and ` hot air ' of antiglobalization protesters . notes that vice pres cheney is now asking un help , france has only given pro-us europeans backbone and protesters are shown to have no alternative growth strategy of their own .
 director darren_aronofsky 's movie the fountain , originally supposed to star brad_pitt and budgeted for $ 100 million , was scrapped in 2002 when pitt abandoned project . is now filming in montreal for fraction of cost and with hugh_jackman in starring role . aronofsky gained notoriety with low-budget , critically acclaimed films and this movie , about the search for eternal life , is hoped to be his breakout studio movie .
 fbi probes reports that president of teachers ' union in miami-dale_county , fla , pat_tornillo , spent $ 350,000 in union money on way of life that included $ 175 python-print pajamas from neiman_marcus and $ 49,715 three-week vacation to australia , new_zealand and california . tornillo takes unpaid leave of absence . american_federation_of_teachers , parent organization , which is also dealing with continuing probe of finances of barbara_bullock , president of washington_teachers_'_union , decides to increase_financial_accountability_of_union 's locals .
 south_korea 's samsung_electronics_co , world 's largest producer of memory chips and flat screens , is turning more aggressive as profit falls . says it plans to invest about $ 3.4 billion in new chip plants and equipment this year . will spend about $ 500 million to upgrade its sole overseas chip plant , in austin , tex .
 gov george e pataki bypasses new_york_city and announces that state will provide freedom tower developer larry a silverstein $ 1.67 billion in liberty bonds for project . urges silverstein and port authority of new_york and new jersey to work out differences over wide range of issues that could jeopardize completion of project .
 former intelligence officials say iyad_allawi , iraq 's designated prime minister , ran exile group that sent agents into baghdad in early 1990 's to plant bombs and sabotage saddam_hussein 's government , under cia direction . say allawi 's iraqi national accord used explosive devices smuggled from northern iraq . generally agree that efforts did not seriously threaten hussein 's rule . no public records exist and recollections are sketchy and contradictory , including truth of iraq 's claims of civilian casualties . former officials like kenneth_pollack note irony of allawi 's promise now to stop bombings . sandy_berger recalls that allawi , unlike ahmad_chalabi , was trusted by regional governments .
 dennis_halstead , john_kogut and john_restivo are released on bail after serving 18 years in prison for 1984 rape and murder of theresa_fusco in lynbrook , ny . although dna evidence appears to exonerate them , nassau_county dist atty dennis_dillon says he is considering ordering new trials . investigation is under way to determine if killer is still at large . kogut had confessed to murder and implicated others after more than 18 hours of sleep deprivation and interrogation . he later recanted but prosecutors used confession at trial .
 profile of film and television producer jerry_bruckheimer notes bruckheimer has successfully created ` entertainment factory , ' with consistency of style and quality control evident in both movies and television programming . bruckheimer 's films have grossed total of $ 4.4 billion worldwide over last two decades . major new projects include upcoming motion pictures pirates of the caribbean and bad boys ii , along with television series cold case , scheduled to debut in fall on cbs .
 british chancellor of the exchequer gordon_brown endorses report he commissioned that suggests some european governments , particularly spain and france , are blocking fair competition in awarding public contracts -- said to be worth almost $ 2 trillion , equivalent to 16 percent of european_union 's annual economic activity . report stops short of accusing europeans of malfeasance .
 oracle 's battle to take over peoplesoft shifts to delaware court , where oracle will try to prove that peoplesoft directors acted irresponsibly in rejecting oracle 's $ 7.7 billion bid . oracle is asking judge_leo_e_strine jr to compel peoplesoft to rescind ` poison pill ' provision that would make its stock prohibitively expensive and cancel peoplesoft program that guarantees customers refunds of up to five times license price in event company 's products are not supported after takeover .
 the week column . mayor john_fabrizi of brigeport , conn , publicly admits he used cocaine and abused alcohol while in office . says he stopped drinking alcohol and sought help for his drug problem about 18 months ago . members of hartford_whalers_booster_club cheer team , now known as carolina hurricanes , to stanley cup victory .
 leaders of independent commission investigating 9/11 terrorist attacks say in joint television interview that evidence gathered by their panel shows attacks could probably have been prevented . remarks of two , thomas_h_kean and lee h hamilton , draw sharp disagreement from karen_p_hughes , formerly one of pres bush 's closest political advisers . kean and hamilton also suggest that national security adviser condoleezza_rice will be questioned aggressively about why administration had not taken more action against al qaeda before sept 11 , and about discrepancies between her public statements and those of former counterterrorism chief richard a clarke .
 williamsburg , brooklyn , has been evolving in last_decade with its artsy young professional residents . renters hungering for equity of own will be able to stay in neighborhood by buying into one of over 130 buildings currently planned for williamsburgh and neighboring greenpoint or large-scale waterfront developments expected with proposed rezoning along east_river that will transform 75 blocks from industrial to residential use . buildings under construction now are just beginning of transformation that will some day make area look more like parts of far west_village , with sleek glass high-rise buildings and waterfront residences . condos now available in williamsburg noted .
 federal prosecutors plan to file new charges and name as many as 12 new defendants in their probe of questionable tax shelters sold by accounting firm kpmg . describe widening criminal investigation at arraignment of nine former executives who were charged in august with conspiracy to devise and sell fraudulent tax shelters . nine defenants , former lawyer at sidley_austin_brown_&_wood and eight former partners at kpmg , plead not guilty .
 secretary of state_colin_l_powell declares that united_states views killings , rapes and destruction of homes in darfur region of sudan as genocide , and he calls on united_nations_security_council to recognize that situation requires urgent action . powell 's declaration is tantamount to invoking 1948 convention on prevention and punishment of crime of genocide . it is first time any nation has invoked that provision calling on un to take action . objections are raised by ambassadors of pakistan and china , countries that have warned that threats of sanctions against government of sudan would backfire and make sudan more intransigent .
 men from all over northeast form line in manhattan to apply for 200 openings in metallic lathers union of new_york and vicinity . hope to earn $ 38 an hour laying steel bars that reinforce concrete in buildings . union business manager notes that compensation comes to $ 62 an hour if you figure in benefits .
 scene described as team of us government and contract workers and volunteers conduct systematic search of cow pasture in corsicana , tex , for pieces of columbia_space_shuttle . nasa researchers believe field may contain many pieces of shuttle 's left wing , where signs of trouble began to appear during re-entry . more than 3,000 searchers from 43 states , led by federal_emergency_management_agency , are conducting searches in northern and eastern_texas .
 neil_strauss critic 's notebook column on rockfest in toronto organized by parliament members jerry_grafstein and dennis_mills , which drew some 450,000 people to downsview park for performances by rolling stones , justin_timberlake , ac / dc and several local acts . purpose was to announce that toronto was free of sars and ready for tourists .
 pentagon considers whether to shape military to mount one , rather than two major wars at same time , freeing more resources for anti-terrorism efforts . profound change is being considered during top-to-bottom review of pentagon strategy , as ordered by congress every four years . it will determine future size of military and fate of hundreds of billions of dollars in new weapons . intense debate reflects growing recognition that current burden of maintaining forces in iraq and afghanistan , along with other demands of global campaign against terrorism , may force change in assumptions that have been foundation of all military planning . this is first time in decades that pentagon has questioned wisdom of two-war strategy .
 new television season fails to produce blockbuster hit like lost and desperate housewives a year ago , and those two shows , both on abc , are overpowering the competition . among big disappointments has been the apprentice : martha_stewart on nbc , which may even be hurting the donald j trump original . my name is earl on nbc and everybody hates chris on upn are doing well .
 former pres clinton is admitted to columbia-presbyterian medical center after cardiologists find potentially life-threatening accumulations of plaque in coronary arteries . expects to undergo triple or quadruple bypass surgery . sen hillary_rodham_clinton rushes back from trip to visit husband in hospital with daughter_chelsea . hospitalization comes just as clinton was expected to ramp up activity for democrats in final 60 days 60 days of campaigning . friends and neighbors_express shock because clinton looks healthy . clinton has never had heart attack and has active life style .
 selena roberts sports of the times column contends that madison_square_garden chairman james_dolan 's attempts to thwart new_york_city 's bid to host 2012 olympics is expected conduct for executive who tries to buy better teams and championships . contends that dolan 's $ 10 million ad campaign assailing proposed new stadiums in new_york_city are result of insecurity that new venues would give garden unwanted competition .
 pres bush 's address on his strategy for iraq fails to change minds of democrats or republicans in congress . democrats say administration is mishandling conflict and looming transfer of power there . republicans say he presented coherent plan for weeks and months ahead . outside congress , former nato commander gen george a joulwan says speech lacked clarity and failed to answer important logistical questions . brookings institution military expert michael_o'hanlon disagrees with how bush tied iraq to global battlefield on terror .
 pamela_gluckin is sentenced to three to nine years in prison for stealing $ 4.3 million from roslyn , ny , school district , where she worked as assistant supervisor of business . sentencing of frank a tassone , former school superintendent who pleaded guilty to stealing $ 2.2 million , is put off after he suffers what his lawyer says was heart attack . many roslyn residents feel sentences for officials who embezzled more than $ 11 million are too lenient .
 rising cost of health insurance has become no . 1 issue for owners of small businesses . 26 percent of companies with fewer than 200 workers reported rate increases for health insurance of more than 20 percent last_year , compared with 20 percent at large companies . only about 47 percent of small companies now offer health insurance , compared with 98 percent at businesses with more than 200 employees on payroll . rising rates confront employers with choice of either absorbing higher costs at time when they can not raise their prices or alienating employees with cuts in benefits .
 new america foundation fellow peter_bergen op-ed article contends that terrorist abu musab_al-zarqawi ` s connections to al_qaeda and saddam_hussein are tenuous . holds that zarqawi is ruthless murderer , but if he is , as pres bush has said , ` best evidence ' of link between hussein and al_qaeda , administration 's case is weak one .
 d kyle_sampson resigns as chief of staff to atty gen alberto_r_gonzales , ending fast rise in washington since his arrival in 1999 as low-level aide to sen_orrin_g_hatch_on_senate_judiciary_committee . played considerable role in vetting who served in justice_department during much of bush administration and used his post in 2006 bid to become us attorney in utah , which was thwarted because hatch wanted someone else .
 bill and melinda_gates foundation 's $ 30 billion endowment dwarfs all others . ford_foundation is second-largest foundation , but it is just one-third size of gates foundation . rockefeller foundation is 15th or 16th largest with roughly $ 3.6 billion , and carnegie_corp with $ 2.6 billion is no longer in top 20 . carnegie_corp and rockefeller_foundation are working to get more impact for their money and extend their legacies by changing way they operate . ford_foundation is poised for transition when its president , susan_v_berresford , retires at end of year .
 morgan_stanley reports 25 percent decline in earnings for second_quarter , while bear stearns says profits declined 20 percent . declines show big wall street firms have yet to cash in on recent stock market revival . bear stearns says earnings were $ 280 million . morgan_stanley 's earnings were $ 599 million . says it will reduce its head count by 1,000 this year and expects staffing to remain level through end of year .
 scientists report that primitive hominid species lived in what is now ethiopia about 5.5 million to 5.8 million years ago . that would make it one of earliest known human ancestors , perhaps one of first to emerge after chimpanzee and human lineages diverged from common ancestor some six million to eight million years ago .
 long island journal column on culture clash in indian-american community on long_island . shreya parvathi_subramani , 14 , who performed bharata natyam , indian classical dance , on stage at gala $ 15,000 coming-of-age affair at hindu_temple in flushing , queens , last_weekend missed attending temptations 2004 concert featuring six of indian film industry 's biggest stars at nassau_coliseum .
 op-ed article by manhattan_institute_empire_center for new_york state policy director e j mcmahon on pork-barrel ` member items ' vetoed from budget by new_york gov george_pataki . calls on senate majority leader joseph_bruno and minority leader david_patterson to work toward release of details of member items from secret memos before they are voted on .
 europe 's financial policy makers issue their strongest warnings yet about dangers of swooning dollar , and dollar promptly sinks to new low against euro . after falling to $ 1.339 in trading in new_york on dec 6 , euro bounces back to $ 1.346 -- a record -- on dec 7 . european central bank has been mum about possible intervention .
 profile of stephen_b_burke , president of cable unit of comcast , who is content to be no . 2 to chief executive brian_l_roberts . burke can not hope to ever run company since roberts family still controls third of company 's voting interest . burke 's role is much like one his father , daniel_b_burke , had as right-hand man to thomas_s_murphy at capital cities / abc .
 hurricane ivan kills at least 15 jamaicans before gaining strength and moving off toward cayman islands and cuba . center of hurricane misses jamaica , but heavy winds and rain cause extensive damage . caymans and western cuba begin evacuations of threatened areas . jamaican prime min p j patterson is criticized for declaring state of emergency and expanding police powers even before ivan_hit . kingston police shoot and kill one suspected looter and one suspected robber and arrest 28 others .
 china denies it helped finance purchase of yukos_oil subsidiary yuganskneftegas by russsian state oil company rosneft , while russian officials also try to erase any link between china and acquisition . analysts say moves might be attempt to avoid being sued by yukos , which won injunction in bankruptcy court in texas in december barring any company from financing bid for subsidiary . chinese foreign ministry official kong quan says china has not provided any loans to russian oil company to purchase any stake in yuganskneftegas .
 israeli court sets trial date of april 6 for marwan_barghouti , palestinian leader charged with involvement in attacks that killed 26 people and wounded many others . israeli settlers attending funeral in hebron of nathaniel_ozeri , settler killed on jan 17 , go on rampage against palestinians , scuffle with army and argue with one another over burial site . fighting escalates into full-scale riot .
 board of martha_stewart living omnimedia announces it is replacing president and chief executive , sharon_l_patrick , with susan_lyne , television and publishing veteran who joined board just five_months_ago . she will report to thomas_c_siekman , chairman , and no doubt to martha_stewart as well , who has no title at company but owns about 60 percent of stock . lyne photo .
 abdul qadeer_khan , founder of pakistan 's nuclear weapons program , recently confessed to having shared nuclear technology with north_korea , iran and libya . investigators say he made millions in scheme that spanned decade and involved global nuclear smuggling network . news is blow to pakistan 's fragile sense of identity , but explanation offered by country 's powerful army -- that khan had managed to ship top-secret nuclear components out of country without army knowing -- seems implausible . among working-class pakistanis there is broad support for khan and for gen_pervez_musharraf 's pardon of him .
 article on initiative undertaken by westchester_county executive andrew_spano and nearly 20 other county executives that seeks to persuade homeland security sec tom ridge to set aside more security funds for high-risk suburban counties . program would be modeled after urban area security initiative , created since 9/11 terror attacks to direct security financing to cities considered at high risk . while new_york_city reportedly has received more than $ 260 million in past three years , westchester has received $ 5.6 million .
 jennifer_steinhauer news analysis discusses new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's hands-off managerial style , which led to controversy over schools chancellor joel_i_klein 's much-maligned appointment of diana_lam as deputy chancellor . klein was asked to appoint someone else when lam 's record was questioned . he appointed carmen_farina . bloomberg made rare public statements about his concerns about lam 's past and called for her resignation .
 captured new_york state prison fugitive ralph_phillips admits to justice_richard_c_kloch_in_state_supreme_court that he shot troopers joseph_a_longobardo , who later died , and donald_baker jr in chautauqua_county . he also admits to justice peter_c_buckley in chemung_county that he shot and wounded trooper sean_m_brown . admissions are made as part of plea bargaining that will keep phillips imprisoned for life . phillips spent most of spring and summer on run .
 leprosy infections increase in united_states , even as cases of leprosy have been declining worldwide in recent years . while there were some 900 recorded cases in united_states 40 years ago , today more than 7,000 people have leprosy . most of those infected in this country are immigrants from global leprosy hot spots , like brazil , india and caribbean .
 group led by glenn_l_martin_maryland_aviation_museum hopes to raise $ 1 million to bring gigantic vintage martin_mars seaplane home to middle_river , md . local glenn_l_martin_co , now part of lockheed_martin , built seven mars planes for navy beginning in early 1940 's . it is largest operational seaplane ever built , with 200-foot wingspan .
 pres bush makes campaign visit to florida , where he charges that sen john_kerry would raise taxes and choke off economic recovery . contends kerry would close budget deficit by raising taxes . kerry voted against bush 's 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and has said he would repeal some tax cuts if elected , though he would extend a variety of tax reductions that are scheduled to expire at end of this year . support of florida is regarded as critical for winning presidency .
 new_york_city_council_speaker_christine_c_quinn introduces tougher rules for council members ' budget requests . new spending items must now have support of at least 10 council members from at least three boroughs . rules are aimed at discouraging frivolous requests . new requests this year include $ 15 million for small high schools and dropout prevention , $ 10 million to help subsidize health care expenses for small employers and $ 8.1 million for books for the city 's three public library systems .
 yuval_unterman is carried out front door of his home in morag settlement in gaza by five israeli policemen after succession of israeli_army officers try , without success , to persuade him to leave on his own . painstaking talks with unterman , a community leader in morag , typify measured approach employed by israeli security forces as they coax , and often drag , hundreds of settlers and their supporters from their homes on first day of forced evacuation in gaza_strip .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg will replace local conditional release commission chairman raul_russi , who oversaw controversial early release of former new_york state senator guy j velella from prison , with daniel_richman . russi announced he would resign after his efforts led to velella 's release after serving only three months of 12-month sentence .
 trudy_steinfeld , director of career services at new_york_university , tells thousands of students who graduate from nyu each year that it is not hard to land a job so long as they take shrewd approach to the job search . says this , even as she acknowledges job market is one of worst in 20 years she has been in her job .
 seven men who were arrested in miami , fla , on terror charges were shown on undercover videotapes reciting oaths of loyalty to al_qaeda , repeating words that fbi informant had given them to say . tapes , played at federal court hearing by prosecutors , did not provide evidence that men had money or firepower to blow up sears_tower in chicago and federal buildings in five cities , as they are accused of conspiring to do , or that they had actual ties to al qaeda . prosecutor jacqueline_m_arango says group 's leader , narseal_batiste , asked undercover informant for rockets , semiautomatic rifles and $ 50,000 .
 howard dean abandons campaign for democratic presidential nomination after finishing third in wisconsin primary . sens john_kerry and john_edwards move aggressively to fill space , picking states they will compete in over next two weeks and arguing over kerry 's support of free trade accords and his contributions from lobbyists . kerry , campaigning in ohio , says he and edwards have same stands on future trade pacts .
 andrew m cuomo , democrat , and jeanine_f_pirro , republican , have collected about $ 12.4 million in their campaigns for new_york state attorney general . small number of devoted big-dollar donors have helped to set record for fund-raising in race . large proportion of money for cuomo campaign has come from businessmen andrew_l_farkas and aby_rosen . biggest contributions to pirro 's campaign have come from businesses and people associated with her husband , albert_j_pirro jr .
 moscow art theater school , training grounds for moscow art theater and where konstantin_stanislavsky developed his acting method , is about to graduate its first class of americans , including six alumni of laguardia high school for performing arts in manhattan . director anatoly_smeliansky says graduation is one of most important chapters in relationship between moscow art theater and america . actors comment .
 spain 's interior min angel acebes announces discovery of videotape on which man identifying himself as military spokesman for al_qaeda in europe claims responsibility for train attacks that killed hundreds , calling it retribution for spain 's participation in iraq war . acebes warns that authenticity of tape has not been confirmed . says neither spanish nor european_intelligence_services can identify man on tape . government releases transcript of statement . three moroccans and two indians have been arrested in connection with bombings . weekend after bombing is fraught with emotion , as thousands of demonstrators gather in central madrid to protest policies of prime min jose_maria_aznar . 90 percent of spaniards were opposed to participation in war in iraq , believing it was unjust and would make country vulnerable to terrorist attack . with elections imminent , socialist party candidate jose_luis_rodriguez_zapatero has been critical of involvement and has pledged to withdraw troops .
 ipsos-reid reports online holiday sales fell for last two years in canada , period during which united_states sales soared nearly 60 percent . company executive chris_ferneyhough says results are particularly puzzling because number of canadians who have bought something online has risen to 47 percent of internet users , up from 39 percent in early 2003 . online trend runs counter to overall canadian retail sales , which have grown over last two holiday seasons .
 michael_azerrad article on mission of burma , rock band that formed in 1979 and gained cult following before disbanding in 1983 . says group has been revived by original bassist-singer clint_conley , guitarist-singer roger_miller , and drummer-singer peter_prescott , with bob_weston replacing martin_swope at soundboard . notes band is touring again , and will release first new album in 22 years . some band members comment .
 roy_hoffman new_york observed essay on family party aboard yacht in new_york harbor celebrating 95th birthday of his father , charles . recounts tale of his grandparents ' journey from shtetls of romania , landing in ellis_island in 1890 's , meeting and marrying in brooklyn and moving to mobile , ala , to raise family .
 michael s dell returns as dell_inc 's chief executive , succeeding kevin_b_rollins . rollins is not entitled to severance or pension plan but will walk away with $ 30 million in stock options . changes come after year of slowed revenue growth and accounting problems that sparked securities_and_exchange_commission and justice_department investigations .
 group of new_york planners will visit los_angeles to observe a program that has sped up buses by 22 to 25 percent . changes include designated bus lanes , easy-to-board low-floor buses and computerized signaling that gives buses priority at intersections . new_york_city transit , whose buses run on some of most congested streets in world , would be delighted to achieve even half of those speed gains . agency has teamed up with city and state_transportation_depts on $ 2.9 million study of bus rapid transit .
 mutual fund performance in 2004 first_quarter noted . domestic stock funds rose 3 percent , barely outpacing fixed-income funds , which continued to benefit from very low interest rates . many fund managers say stock market 's pause was natural , given gains of over 40 percent since apr 2003 . small-capitalization funds generally outperformed large-cap shares . international funds , especially those invested in asia , did better than domestic shares .
 new_york state assembly democratic majority approves budget-reform bill , calling for independent budget office to oversee revenue estimates and other reforms not likely to be approved by republican_senate . bill is aimed at speeding up approval of state_budget , which is passed late every year . both assembly and senate agree that start of fiscal year should be moved from april 1 to may 1 .
 somali political world has been turned upside down in just two weeks , bringing ambitious governance and reconstruction issues into focus for first time in 16 years . surprising reversal is because of thousands of ethiopian troops still in somalia who routed islamists after ethiopian officials declared growing movement a regional threat . ethiopian offiicals say they plan to withdraw their forces in few weeks and hand over control to yet-to-be-formed american_peacekeeping_force .
 senate opens debate on $ 122 billion iraq spending bill , and republicans say they will rely on pres bush 's veto rather than procedural maneuvers to block congress from imposing withdrawal date for american troops . democrats do not have enough votes in house or senate to override veto . house and senate deliberations on iraq open as 60 percent of americans polled by pew research center say they want congress to support troop withdrawal plan by aug 2008 .
 mtv movie awards are handed out in los_angeles . winners include vince_vaughn and owen_wilson for best on-screen team in wedding crashers , jake_gyllenhaal and heath ledger for best kiss and gyllenhaal for best actor in brokeback mountain , angelina_jolie and brad_pitt for best fight in mr and mrs_smith and steve_carell for best comedic performance in the 40-year-old virgin .
 first of two articles notes that four years after coast_guard began effort to replace nearly its entire fleet of ships , planes and helicopters , modernization program heralded as model of government innovation is foundering . problems have helped swell costs of program , called deepwater , to projected $ 24 billion , from $ 17 billion . coast_guard hired lockheed_martin and northrop_grumman to plan , supervise and deliver new vessels and helicopters . many retired coast_guard officials and government auditors fault privatization effort . program 's few congressional skeptics were outmatched by enthusiastic lawmakers mobilized by aggressive lobbying campaign financed by lockheed and northrop . deepwater joins long list of troubled programs for homeland_security_dept , which took over responsibility for coast_guard in 2003 .
 bill galatis , 50 , and chuck_samiotes , 49 , owners of greek restaurants in boston , travel to athens to pursue their seemingly thwarted dream of playing on greece 's olympic baseball team , even if for only one at-bat or just to warm bench . feel they deserve chance after years of work helping to establish baseball in greece . are opposed by baltimore_orioles , whose greek-american owner , peter_angelos , bankrolled and helped set up greek team , which is made up largely of greek-americans like galatis and samiotes , although younger .
 san francisco giants outfielder barry bonds hits 700th home run in game against san_diego_padres , 31 years after hank_aaron and 70 years after babe ruth accomplished feat . light displays , banners and streamers celebrate moment . bonds expects to hit 715th home run early next season to pass ruth and he will then take aim at aaron 's careerrecord of 755 home runs . bonds also set career record for walks this season .
 edward h bastian and james_m_whitehurst , executives running delta_air_lines on day-to-day basis , want to be delta 's next chief executive , if airline is not taken over by us_airways . delta is expected to file plan to operate after bankruptcy on dec_19 . making delta 's argument to remain independent and fend off $ 8.6 billion bid from us_airways , plan will also make case by extension for bastian and whitehurst to keep their jobs . their resentment of us_airways offer is more intense because of sacrifices they and their 50,000 co-workers made to stay at delta . two gave up well-paying jobs to join delta when it was already clear that airline was in trouble .
 russia 's lukoil reports 38 percent increase in earnings during its third_quarter and says it plans to sell even more crude oil outside russia and less at home to cash in on high global oil prices . net income was $ 701 million on sales of $ 6.04 billion , which was up from $ 4.43 billion .
 palestinian pres mahmoud abbas and hamas lawmakers in new parliament clash over need to honor existing agreements with israel and conduct negotiations with israel to achieve palestinian statehood . hamas spokesman says negotiations with israel are not on hamas 's agenda . abbas has warned that if hamas does not cooperate , he will consider replacing its chosen prime minister or even calling new elections . israel , united_states , european_union , russia and united_nations have all said new government must recognize israel 's right to exist , forswear violence and respect previous agreements .
 unexpected resilience of us dollar , which is up against euro and down marginally against other currencies this year , is result of extraordinary market manipulation by japan , which spent nearly 15 trillion yen , or $ 142 billion , to prop up dollar to help japan 's exporters sell abroad . japan has set dollar up for steeper slide against yen and renewed fall against euro and other currencies . dollar drops 1.2 percent against yen to four-year low of 104.35 . dollar falls against euro , dropping 0.9 percent as exchange value of euro rises to $ 1.2305 .
 pastor and eldest daughter of ray and vanessa_jackson defend couple against charges that they starved four of their adopted children . renee_jackson says parents never withheld food or medicine . rev harry_thomas accuses camden_county , new jersey , prosecutor and state_child_services division of inflicting abuse . he and congregants had at first expressed dismay at charges .
 several hundred fans stand behind chain-link fence at santa_barbara_county_superior_court on first day of jury selection for michael_jackson 's trial on child molestation charges . judge rodney s melville tells first wave of 150 prospective jurors that trial is espected to last five months after jury is seated . about half of first group say they are willing to serve . rest are asked to explain reasons for seeking to avoid service . jackson has pleaded not guilty to four counts of engaging in lewd acts with minor , four counts of administering alcohol to aid in molesting , one count of attempted child molesting and one count of conspiracy .
 aon says insurers in london have begun charging extra for war insurance on commercial airline and charter flights into part of middle_east . says kuwait is among countries where higher rates are being imposed . additional costs will be highest for countries bordering iraq -- kuwait , saudi_arabia , jordan , syria , turkey and iran -- as well as israel .
 connecticut democratic candidate ned lamont criticizes incumbent sen joseph_i_lieberman 's 1998 rebuke on senate floor of pres bill_clinton over his affair with monica_lewinsky . says he shared moral outrage over affair but that lieberman helped make affair media spectacle . calls lieberman , who is running as independent , de facto_republican_candidate .
 kerry_konrad 's bid to rename fleetcenter -lrb- boston , mass -rrb- for one day is rejected when he requests ` derekjetercenter , ' after new_york_yankees shortstop derek_jeter , who is feared and disliked by boston_red_sox players and fans . stadium owner is allowing people to bid for one-day naming rights while it looks for new sponsor to replace bank_of_america .
 oil prices set record again on concerns about production disruptions in iraq and continued undertainty about fate of russian oil producer yukos . yukos 's crisis eases after russian government hires investment bank dresdner_kleinwort_wasserstein to evaluate sale of yukos subsidiary yuganskneftegas . crude oil closes at record $ 45.50 per barrel for september delivery .
 deadly attacks all across iraq take lives of more than 50 iraqis . american military says six soldiers and journalist were killed by roadside bomb in diyala_province , and another two soldiers died in baghdad area from wounds from roadside bombs . in samarra , suicide car bomber attacks police battalion headquarters , killing police chief and 11 others .
 prosecutors in hate-crime trial of nicholas_minucci play audio and video statements made by minucci to investigators just hours after his alleged attack in howard_beach , queens , on glenn_moore , who is black . statements show minucci 's use of racial epithet against moore during confrontation and that minucci said attack occurred because moore and two of his friends attempted to rob_him . minucci told investigators attack on moore was self-defense .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry go back on road after debates . polls show candidates in dead-heat . neither wants to lose momentum . bush starts in missouri , goes on to iowa and minnesota on same day . kerry tours ohio and florida . candidates focus on domestic issues in preparation for next week 's third debate , but each spends time on iraq war .
 primedia_inc is expected to sell new_york magazine for more than $ 50 million to investor group led by mortimer_b_zuckerman and including nelson_peltz , jeffrey_epstein , donny_deutsch and harvey_weinstein . michael_wolff , magazine 's media columnist , helped organize bid and may have supervisory editorial role if it is successful . some people question how such cold-eyed executives can work together and how their deep involvement in new_york 's business and cultural life will affect magazine 's coverage of city .
 securities and exchange commission is expected to examine role of dow jones director david k p li in possible leak to hong_kong couple suspected of insider trading . couple was accused of profiting from ` highly suspicious ' trading of dow jones stock shortly before news of news corporation 's takeover offer . purchased 415,000 shares in mid-april , making $ 8.2 million after stock rose 58 percent on news of $ 5 billion offer .
 irish government 's support of thoroughbred breeding paid off at annual yearling sale at goffs , ireland 's largest auctioneer of thoroughbreds , in kill , ireland . over two days , nearly 400 select 1-year-old horses changed hands at goffs for total of more than 24.4 million euros -lrb- $ 28.5 million -rrb- . irish government pays air fare of foreign breeders who come to buy horses . raises limit on prize money to attract better horses to irish racetracks , so combined purses were 46.3 million euros -lrb- $ 54.2 million -rrb- last year , up from 18.9 million euros five_years_earlier . government owns stud farm , where horse owners send mares to be bred .
 menninger clinic , topeka , kansas , famed psychiatric clinic that opened its doors 78 years ago , is moving to houston , texas , in new partnership with baylor_college_of_medicine and methodist_hospital . move marks end of era of elite private hospitals that catered to wealthy , often in bucolic settings , where patients spent months or years sorting out their lives . move leaves only one intensive long-term psychoanalytic treatment facility , austen_riggs_center in stockbridge , mass . closing is attributed to change in health care economics and rise of managed care , as well as fundamental changes in psychiatry , precipitated by new drugs , brief psychotherapies and advances in neuroscience . rise and decline of clinic also reflects dynamics of family who founded it , dr charles_menninger and his sons , karl and william , both doctors . debate in psychiatric community over transition discussed . clinic helped build topeka 's reputation as destination for brightest minds in field .
 conversion of brooklyn_heights_warehouse at 360 furman street to 449-unit condominium building called one brooklyn bridge park is nearing completion . luxury units will range from $ 550,000 to $ 7 million . move-in time frame is anticipated by end of year . construction of brooklyn bridge park itself is set to begin in summer .
 customers of taco_bell restaurants report suffering from e . coli food poisoning in several more states . authorities zero in on green onions from boskovich farms in oxnard , calif . 169 cases are reported , mostly on long_island and in new jersey . it is unclear if scallions were contaminated at farm , at ready pac produce , where they are cut , washed and sanitized , or at mclane_foodservice_warehouse in burlington township , nj . some who became ill file suits against taco_bell , which is owned by yum -rsb- foods .
 profile of and interview with leon_sokol , senior partner in sokol , behot and fiorenzo of hackensack who is working behind the scenes as confidant of acting new jersey gov richard_codey . sokol has been counsel to state_senate democrats for three decades . codey , in interview , comments on his reliance on sokol .
 european union has at least seven investigations in progress concerning suspected price fixing and collusion in chemical industry . five more inquiries completed in last_two_years have led to fines against more than 20 companies , and parallel probes in us have also resulted in fines . some chemical companies , like archer_daniels midland , aventis , basf , hoffman-laroche and jungbunzlauer , have been fined in more than one case .
 acting new jersey governor richard_j_codey gives his final state of state address . is credited for bringing stability to new jersey government during tumultuous 14 months following resignation of james_e_mcgreevey , who was embroiled in sex scandal . jon s corzine is to be sworn in as governor next week .
 microsoft 's senior vice president eric_rudder is seen as possible heir to co-founder bill_gates and chief executive steven a ballmer . both gates and ballmer are only 49 , and neither has suggested that he wants to step aside soon . rudder has led microsoft 's fast-growing business for server products for two years . gates and ballmer , by putting rudder in charge of business earmarked for near-term growth , have singled him out as likely front-runner among next generation of leaders .
 multistate_tax_commission finds us states lost as much as $ 12.4 billion because of tax sheltering in 2001 fiscal year . says in 1980 's , 9 percent of corporate profits were paid to states . says this declined to less than 6 percent by 2001 . concludes corporate tax shelters are reducing ability of states to provide basic needs and are undermining equity and integrity of state tax systems .
 issue of whether european_union 's first constitution should include reference to europe 's christian_heritage bedevils talks on final wording . min michel_barnier makes it clear france will not bend to new pressure to inject religion into draft , news conference . holds constitution should be ` secular . ` positions have hardened with entry of 10 new eu members , many of them predominantly catholic . foreign ministers of seven member nations pressing for christian reference give other ministers text of their letter urging move .
 increasing number of college graduates are traveling abroad to gain work experience . estimate by william_nolting_of_international_center at university_of_michigan says as many as 35,000 young americans may currently be working in foreign countries . actual figure could be twice as much since small organizations and those working illegally are not counted . popular destinations include australia , new_zealand , japan and cambodia . workers often have better chance of finding work when they return due to travel experience .
 russian court sentences nurpashi_kulayev , terrorist who participated in siege of public school in 2004 , to life imprisonment . he was spared execution only because of moratorium on capital punishment in russia . kulayev was captured during final battle at school in beslan , in north_ossetia , near chechnya border . 331 victims died during school seige , including 186 children .
 hurricane frances envelopes most of florida in severe squalls , lashing rain and scattershot destruction . storm , category 2 hurricane when it hits eastern_coast , dwindles to tropical storm as it approaches western coast 18_hours_later . millions of residents are without power and hundreds of thousand without ready access to daily staples . storm hits some of same places hit three weeks ago by hurricane charley . two people are killed by falling trees . infrastructure takes pounding , with part of interstate 95 in west_palm_beach torn away . many battered and exhausted residents seem relieved that slow , huge bulk of storm does not inflict more pain . analysts put damage from two hurricanes at up to $ 40 billion .
 long island journal column . henry and anne_stampfel , owners of bellmore theater , make last-ditch attempt to save oldest theater and last single-screen movie_house in nassau_county by booking musicians to perform before saturday evening feature movies . 1,500 students attend long_island works coalition internship / industry connection fair at huntington_hilton .
 news analysis on mecca accord that brought hamas into palestinian unity government with fatah but without requiring it to recognize israel or forswear violence . saudi-brokered pact largely torpedoed us attempt to restart israeli-palestinian peace efforts and reflects divergent worldviews as both countries attempt to quell violence in region and curb iran . bush administration pits us , arab allies , israel and europe against iran , syria and groups like hamas . saudis are more interested in wooing hamas , fellow sunnis , away from shiite iran .
 rochester leads new_york state 's other cities in homicides , with 55 so far this year , giving it homicide rate of 25.33 per 100,000 . this compares with 7.3 per 100,000 in new_york_city in all_of 2002 and national rate of 5.6 . 80 percent of rochester 's homicides are in section called the crescent , which is home to only 27 percent of city 's population . young black men in crescent area are at risk of homicide at rate 65 times national average . killings rarely cause public outcry .
 glaxosmithkline 's experimental drug lapatinib , to be marketed as tykerb , may help women whose breast cancer continues to worsen despite taking genentech 's existing chemotherapy drug herceptin . tykerb may actually replace herceptin after further studies . both herceptin and tykerb are aimed at tumors that have overabundance of protein her-2 , which account for about 20 percent to 25 percent of breast cancer cases .
 edward and michele_wernecke reclaim daughter katie , 13 , from hospital in houston , tex . promise to seek best cancer treatment possible five months after court ordered enforced course of chemotherapy for katie and placed her with foster family . werneckes had objected to radiation treatment that doctors said katie needed for hodgkin 's disease and had argued that their rights to decide what was best for her had been grossly violated . case raises questions of parental rights and responsibilities in children 's medical care . family is exploring complementary treatment options .
 byron_calame , in public editor column , disputes complaints of many readers that may 23 article about hillary and bill_clinton was tabloid journalism . also notes that may 24 article named 8-year-old boy who released emergency brake on school bus that crushed to death 8-year-old girl in brooklyn . holds that publication of names of juvenile offenders 11 years old and younger should require approval of executive editor .
 gretchen_morgenson column on apparent unwillingness or inability of companies issuing shares for first time to institute shareholder-friendly practices . ipo plus aftermarket fund portfolio manager linda_killian reports 51 percent of companies that went public in 2003 had poor to very poor governance practices , compared with 37 percent in 1999 , despite enactment of major legislation and recent emphasis on better corporate governance .
 dennis_hevesi residential real estate column discusses appeals court ruling that said landlord could not triple rent for new tenants occupying space that had been larger before they lived there . tenants keith_devlin and b d white sued landlord and new_york_state_housing division when landlord tried to charge them $ 1,950 per month for new_york_city apartment that cost $ 673 per month for previous tenants , and was 86 square feet larger .
 congress returns , and republicans set out to devise strategy to enact pres bush 's proposed tax cut and repair rift between house and senate leaders over size of reduction . house speaker j dennis_hastert and senate majority leader bill_frist are scheduled to meet at white_house with pres bush . tax package and spring legislative agenda are likely to be major topics of discussion .
 new_york_city asst dist atty peter_casolaro verbally spars with defendant paul_cortez during final day of testimony in cortez 's trial for murder of his former girlfriend catherine_woods . taunts cortez because woods chose david_haughn as lover over cortez . says that lyrics to rock song cortez wrote illustrate his misogynistic fantasies .
 many analysts urge caution on emerging markets bond funds , which rose 13 percent in 2004 and averaged annual gain of 16.7 percent for last five years . say stunning performance over last five years was partly attributable to series of crises that hurt sector in preceding period . says major threat emerging markets face today is mounting us current account deficit and threat of spike in us interest rates .
 jessica apple article recalls births of her two sons in jerusalem , one shortly after al-aqsa intifada began in 2000 and the other just before american invasion of iraq . says she is reminded of those years as helicopters circle above her home in tel_aviv , 70 miles south of where hezbollah missiles are exploding .
 library of congress announces discovery of nearly full hour of tapes of thelonious monk quartet with john_coltrane from november 29_, 1957 , benefit concert at carnegie_hall recorded by voice_of_america . tapes , which include sets by dizzy_gillespie_orchestra , ray_charles with backing sextet , zoot_sims quartet with chet_baker , and sonny_rollins trio , show coltrane as fully-realized improviser , at beginning of decade-long sprint toward changing jazz completely . larry_applebaum , studio engineer , supervisor and jazz specialist who discovered tapes , comments .
 former buca_inc chairman and chief executive joseph_micatrotto , former chief financial officer greg_gadel and former controller john_motschenbacker plead guilty to federal fraud charges in connection with scheme to create false profits and allow executives to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars to pay for wide range of expenses . company operates buca_di_beppo and vinny t 's of boston restaurant chains .
 sen john_kerry addresses thousands of cheering convention delegates at naacp 's annual convention , accusing pres bush of dividing americans by race and class and promising that if elected president , he will be ` truly a uniter ' . pointedly says that president must talk to all people . bush angered members of naacp by refusing its invitation to speak , making him first incumbent president since herbert_hoover not to meet with group during his entire term in office . white_house leaves little doubt that bush , who did address group in 2000 , sees no benefit in doing so again .
 streetscapes column on history of buildings lining 57th street between fifth and sixth avenues . magnificent 19th century mansions of some of america 's ` first families ' are mostly gone or altered beyond recognition . in early 1900 's when many of buildings had been converted to city 's most fashionable stores , block was often referred to as new_york 's version of rue_de_la_paix in paris .
 ronell_wilson , sentenced to death for murders of new_york_city detectives james v nemorin and rodney_j_andrews , may have unwittingly lost chance for successful appeal when he turned to victims ' families and stuck out his tongue as verdict was announced . judges who may ultimately weigh request for clemency may not be able to overlook gesture that some say proves that wilson is ` remorseless ' .
 five people are arrested and charged in connection with murder and robbery of anthony_battaglia outside his lynbrook , li , home in october . omar delarosa and nelson_zuniga are charged with first-degree murder , and janny_paez , marina_musso and fernando_moronta are charged with second-degree murder . police say group , some of whom are members of latin kings gang , is also responsible for other robberies in nassau_county .
 hollywood throws its support in calfornia gubernatorial recall election behind arianna_huffington , ignoring arnold_schwarzenegger 's bid , largely because he is republican . latest campaign finance reports show sizable contribution to huffington 's campaign from harvey_weinstein of miramax and fund-raisers boasting attendees dustin_hoffman , bill_maher and others . huffington 's supporter are generally opposed to recall of gov gray davis and say they will vote accordingly .
 cablevision systems reports 11.2 percent rise in quarterly revenue , to $ 1.3 billion , but widening of losses , to $ 305.8 million , from year earlier . agrees to swap interests with news_corp in deal that will give it full ownership of madison_square_garden , knicks and rangers . news corp , in return , will gain full control of three sports channels .
 toyota_motor_co is introducing its latest prius , which will get about 55 miles per gallon and be first midsize vehicle with hybrid technology as ford_motor_co scales back expectations for its first hybrid-powered vehicle and backpedals on pledge to improve fuel economy of its sport utility vehicles . situation is complicated and bleak from perspective of reducing oil consumption . toyota , honda_motor and nissan motor are flooding american market with suv 's of all sizes . toyota and nissan are redoubling efforts to take on last largely unchallenged stronghold of detroit automakers : pickup truck . sales of new-model suv 's from japan far outnumber gas-sipping hybrids .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on irresistible tale of dusty foggo , cia chief porter_goss , who picked him as top aide , and poker playing operative nicknamed nine fingers . wonders at pres bush installing dick_cheney ` lackey ' whose first move was to warn employees of already dysfunctional agency that their duty was to support administration .
 western and iraqi officials say that with chaos of occupation and loosening of us control , iran has moved into its best position in decades to influence political shape of iraq . say iran has quietly strengthened its presence in iraq by providing financial backing to shiite muslim groups and by flooding country with intelligence agents . us officials are concerned about iran 's close ties to powerful shiite clerics like grand ayatollah_ali_al-sistani and moktada_al-sadr .
 high-powered motorcycles continue to be subject of fascination with decision-makers in american business , giving lift to $ 19 billion-per-year motorcycle industry . many riders now own multiple bikes , which can cost as much as $ 40,000 each . trend is not limited to business executives , with several members of bush administration , including health and human services secretary tommy_thompson and newly-appointed office of management and budget head joshua_bolten , being enthusiasts . sales of new motorcycles in us rose 10.2 percent to 937,000 in 2002 , with harley_davidson accounting for 22 percent .
 arts briefing column : three-judge federal appeals court in los_angeles rejects suit filed by mattel against artist tom_forsythe , whose nude photographs depict barbie in sexually provocative poses . rules mattel can not use trademark laws to censor all parodies or satires which use its name . states reportedly slash financing of theaters , museums and performance groups by nearly 25 percent , to $ 272.4 million , after congress increases allocation to national endowment for the arts to $ 122.5 million -lrb- m -rrb- .
 andre agassi loses to roger_federer after delivering one of his finest performances in united_states open final . match of 35-year-old agassi and 24-year-old federer is intergenerational tussle and contrast in styles . top-seeded federer , from switzerland , did not play his best , but played close enough to his best in critical phases of third and fourth sets to win his second consecutive us open and run his record in grand slam finals to 6-0 . agassi , oldest men 's finalist at us open in 31 years , calls federer ` best i 've ever played against ' . says he would like to continue playing next season .
 telephone companies see their future in flat-rate plans of many services . most leading companies , including mci , at & t , bellsouth , qwest_communications , sbc_communications and verizon , have introduced programs that allow customers in some states to make unlimited local and national calls for one flat monthly price . plans commonly cost $ 50 to $ 60 a month with services like voice mail and caller id bundled in , making price only slightly higher than $ 48 that american households typically spend on local nd long-distance calling .
 on stage and off column : james_houghton , who quit as artistic director of annual o'neill playwrights conference at eugene_o'neill theater center in waterford , conn , comments on dispute with board . board will name new resident artistic director soon . araca group plans to open match , new work by stephen_belber at shubert theater next spring , directed by nicholas_martin and featuring ray_liotta . new_york police , responding to complaints from many broadway theater owners , say noise from street performers and preachers will be cut to maximum 75 decibels from 85 .
 six men who owned or ran news media in togliatti , russia , have been killed since 1995 , prompting moscow newspaper to call it ` city of dead journalists ' . victims include two editors in chief of togliatti review , newspaper known for muckraking about deadly post-soviet intersection of politics , business and organized crime . committee to protect journalists reports that total of 13 journalists across russia have been killed since 2000 . mayor nikolai_utkin of togliatti worries that killings mar his city 's reputation , but says he can not provide bodyguards for every journalist .
 joseph_berger column on suits and countersuits filed by robert_manere and alexander_renzuella over use of name swanky frank 's . manere registered name in 1999 under federal trademark laws , has operated tumbledown hot dog shack in norwalk , conn , for 18 years , and expanded to other locations . renzuella , owner of norwalk site who ran shack from 1951 to 1982 , gave property to his grandson , drew_satterfield , and filed suit to stop manere from using name elsewhere .
 strong earthquake rocks central californai town of parkfield , 11 years after scientists predicted it would occur based on records of quakes there about every 22 years . 6.0 quake triggers almost 200 aftershocks . no serious injuries reported . rural town lies virtually atop san andreas fault , and quake breaks earth at exactly spot that ruptured in 1934 and 1966 .
 khalid shaikh mohammed , suspected mastermind of sept 11 attacks on new_york and washington , and three other suspected qaeda operatives are detained by pakistani authorities in rawalpindi and placed in american custody . us officials suspect mohammed was also involved in simultaneous bombings of american embassies in kenya and tanzania in 1998 , as well as bombing of us destroyer cole in yemen in october 2000 .
 united_airlines says its pilots have ratified labor concessions that would save it $ 1.1 billion a year . reaches tentative accord with mechanics on wage cuts and other moves to save $ 349 million a year over six years . flight dispatchers also approve concessions . ual_corp chief executive glenn f tilton says united_needs moves to emerge from bankruptcy and succeed for long term . seeks $ 2.56 billion a year in labor concessions .
 nahum_kohen and his mother-in-law ori_lellouch are charged in theft and attempted sale of two paintings by pablo_picasso from apartment of late art collector william m v kingsland in manhattan . kohen was moving contractor hired to clean out kingsland 's home . authorities now find that some of paintings in kingsland 's collection may themselves be stolen art works .
 harry macklowe signs contract to buy 50-story general_motors building for record-setting $ 1.4 billion , most ever paid for skyscraper in united_states . big gold letters , t-r-u-m-p , that spelled out name of former owner of gm building were stripped from marble exterior of trophy tower on fifth avenue between 58th and 59th streets earlier this year .
 col william_f_grimsley , commander of first brigade of army 's third infantry division , says iraqi government seems to be operating on autopilot , with no one in charge . commanders say american forces have blocked all major roads in and out of baghdad . third brigade 's commanders report clashes with remnants of republican_guard 's hammurabi and adnan divisions as brigade moves north .
 four aspiring members of nato , croatia , macedonia , albania and georgia are encountering resistance to their membership . all four hope to get possible timetable for membership when nato leaders meet in november , but differences are emerging within nato over how fast and far it should enlarge . croatia is widely regarded as favorite to gain membership in 2008 . united states wants nato to grow , but european members are showing less enthusiasm .
 sens john_kerry and john_edwards adopt different strategies as march 2 primaries approach . edwards is focusing on six of ten states at stake and is calling on kerry to agree to series of debates . kerry is pressing campaign in all ten states and hopes to clarify unfocused campaign . edwards , with 188 delegates so far , must look for large victories to make up lost ground , while kerry , with 497 , will add delegates even in states where he finishes second because of delegate allocation rules .
 john_golomb , whose grandfather jacob_golomb founded everlast boxing equipment company in 1910 , opened factory of his own under name legacy in 2004 . business is in port_morris_section of bronx , same area where everlast factory stood unti 2003 . factory employs five former everlast employees , producing handmade boxing gloves and headgear .
 more than 750 people have been killed in puerto_rico this year , giving island homicide rate that is more than three times us average . police attribute killings to drug trade . three superintendents of puerto_rico police dept have quit in two years . latest , victor_rivera_gonzalez , says root problem is insufficent staffing . island 's major newspapers keep running tab of deaths , with graphic articles about shootings , stabbings , and carjackings almost daily .
 democratic convention in boston will showcase latest telecommunications technology , from cellphones to fiber-optic networks , to serve delegates , executives , reporters and lobbyists . verizon has laid 4,000 miles of cable in and around fleet center , where democrats will meet , installed 1,000 high-speed data lines and set up five miniswitching stations to route calls . has prepared 10,000 phone lines and even created new exchange -- 366 -- just for convention . will also supply republican convention in new_york in august .
 business group partnership for new_york endorses plan to build $ 5-billion rail tunnel under hudson_river that would bring commuters to new train station at foot of macy 's on 34th street . photo . map . president kathryn_wylde says project should have priority because tunnels are lifeline for manhattan businesses and workers from new jersey . new jersey transit director george_d_warrington comments on getting support for project across river .
 first results in contests for local governing councils show shiite religious parties moving closer to overwhelming electoral sweep in southern iraq and baghdad . no returns have been released for local or national elections for provinces north of baghdad . electoral commission has fined seven parties for failing to abide by embargo on campaigning 48 hours before vote , conceding for first time that some charges of voting improprieties have merit .
 presidential candidate george w bush and john_kerry are wooing 25-million small business owners . bush campaign has zeroed in on small-business owners , with bush pushing his programs for tax relief , lower health care costs and litigation reform . kerry is hoping to make some inroads on health care costs , access to capital and tax relief . small-business owners are still likely to favor bush by big margin over kerry . national_association_of_women_business_owners_survey_shows 55.9 percent of its members queried in august supported kerry versus 40.1 percent for bush .
 article on results of quality-of-life poll of long islanders commissioned by rauch_foundation . poll , exploring perceptions of 1,387 long_island residents and , for comparison , 600 residents of new_york_city , 400 in northern_suburbs and 300 in suburban new jersey , finds that 86 percent of long islanders have more pronounced sense of regional identity than other groups surveyed and that their major concerns are about jobs and traffic congestion .
 defense sec donald h rumsfeld and army 's senior leadership agree to delay at least until 2006 a decision on whether to expand army permanently . move could set up confrontation with influential members of congress who have been pressing rumsfeld to agree to increase in size of army , which has been under strain because of continuing deployments in iraq and afghanistan .
 visit to us by new chinese leader wen_jiabao comes at time when wen is overseeing china 's financing of big portion of us budget deficit , buying american government debt on scale once reserved for japan . china 's trade surplus with us will likely reach $ 120 billion this year , and globalization , word avoided by bush administration , has diluted us economic influence to point that us treasury is no longer central player in foreign policy that it was during clinton administration .
 new_york_yankees notebook discusses second baseman alfonso_soriano , who is confident shoulder tendinitis has subsided . san diego_padres_express interest in yankees outfielder raul_mondesi . pitcher roger_clemens makes throwing error and gives up two hits in game against detroit_tigers . outfielder hideki_matsui is sidelined for game with stiff neck .
 contrary to common assumption , suburbanites do not make up majority of commuters who drive to work in manhattan . census data shows more than half the drivers who crowd into manhattan each workday come from five boroughs . finds 35 percent of government workers drive to work , many because they have free parking . finds 20 percent of drivers entering busiest parts of manhattan are only passing through , on their way somewhere else . detailed and often surprising portrait of traffic in new_york_city emerges by examining wealth of data collected by government agencies . traffic , and competing proposals for what to do about it , will probably receive more attention in coming months as administration_of_mayor_michael_r_bloomberg creates plan to accommodate city 's expected growth over next 25 years of one million more residents , many of them with cars .
 beacon school , public_high_school_on_upper_west side of manhattan , sends students on trip to cuba for spring break despite education department 's ban on travel to cuba . students were chaperoned by one teacher and two parents . officials say they were unaware of school 's two previous trips to country . schools chancellor joel_i_klein says it should not have happened .
 mexico 's pres vicente fox_quesada is under political siege at home as midterm elections approach . is under verbal volley from us seeking mexico 's support for military action against iraq , which majority of mexicans oppose . his decision on whether mexico will back un resolution supported by united_states may be defining moment for his presidency and country 's complex relationship with us . he is under attack by political opponents and is suffering from medical problems . will undergo spinal surgery on march 12 .
 frank_lloyd_wright legacy is at stake as two factions compete for control of taliesen_west , which wright built in 1938 as living laboratory for architectural study . old guard of wright disciples wants to maintain his principles , whereas another group feels it is time to modernize school 's curriculum and way institution is organized and run . frank_lloyd_wright foundation , which controls taliesin_west , has struggled for year with financial troubles and staff upheaval , resulting in departure of organization 's chief executive , dean of its architecture school and 9 of its 13 faculty members .
 today sponge , once popular over-the-counter method of birth control , is returning to market after being out of production since 1994 . sponge is being produced by allendale_pharmaceuticals in new jersey , which expects to have it in us stores by fall , pending_food_and_drug_administration approval . meanwhile , allendale is shipping to canada , where web site distributing device has been deluged with requests . chronology .
 educators in new jersey are concerned over preliminary data in study by national_center_for_education statistics showing at least half of college students do not graduate in four years . shortage of spaces sends students out of state , with about 20,000 high school graduates leaving new jersey each year for studies elsewhere . new_jersey_commission on higher education wants to add 45,000 to 50,000 spaces by 2010 , hire more instrutors and expand campuses .
 alaska 's gov sarah_palin seeks construction of $ 30 billion natural gas pipeline to transport gas from state 's north slope to markets in lower 48 states . will introduce bill to open pipeline bidding to new as well as old players like bp and exxon_mobil . new plan , however , delays operation of pipeline until 2018 . she stirs concern beyond alaska over longer timeline .
 mcclatchy_co is selling star tribune of minnesota to private equity firm avista_capital_partners for $ 530 million , citing lagging performance of paper and tax advantage from sale . mcclatchy says sale of newspaper , which it bought for $ 1.2 billion in 1998 , would help reduce its debt after purchase of knight ridder chain for more than $ 4 billion . sale comes as surprise to most employees at paper and angers some newsroom employees , who express concerns that avista_capital , which owns no other daily newspapers , could make severe staff cuts . mcclatchy chief executive gary_b_pruitt comments .
 videotapes of conversations in late 1990 's between federal prosecutors and jamal_ahmed_al-fadl , former payroll manager for osama bin laden and first major informer against al_qaeda , are complicating government 's case against four men fadl helped convict of conspiring in 1998 bombings of us embassies in kenya and tanzania and other terrorist acts . defense lawyers are requesting new trials for mohammed saddiq_odeh , wadih_el-hage , khalfan_khamis mohamed and mohamed rashed daoud_al-owhali . fadl is currently in federal witness-protection program . taping , which government says was done by someone in federal marshals service and discovered in 2002 by prosecutors and fbi , violates established practice and very mission of witness protection .
 walt disney selects creative team from world of theater and opera for aladdin , stage adaptation of 1992 animated film that will open in february at california adventure , new_walt_disney theme park in anaheim , calif . project will also rely more on traditional staging than on kind of pyrotechnics generally associated with theme-park entertainment . is headed by anne_hamburger , disney 's new executive vice president for creative entertainment . other such projects are planned as part of what appears to be effort to increase flagging theme-park attendance .
 edmunds.com says average car buyer we4n thome with record discounts of more than $ 5,000 off stick price of 2003 model vehicle in september . says difference between sticker price and net transaction -- what buyer paid after rebates , other incentives and old-fashioned haggling -- was 18.6 percent , dropping price of $ 29,000 vehicle down to $ 23,600 . among most dramatic examples cited by edmunds_is_lincoln_navigator , which has sticker price of about $ 58,000 but sold for $ 45,000 , savings of about $ 13,000 . other discounts detailed .
 cardinal joseph_zen_ze-kiun , highest official of roman_catholic_church in china , uses 17th anniversary of tiananmen_square massacre to strongly criticize chinese government and call on it to hold full and open review of killings . it is latest sign that vatican may not be willing to compromise on human rights to establish diplomatic relations with china .
 arts briefing column : britain 's national_heritage_fund_awards_bodleian_library at oxford $ 5.2 million to buy abinger papers , including original manuscript of mary_shelley 's frankenstein , from estate of late baron_abinger . tenor luciano_pavarotti weds his former personal assistant , nicoletta_mantovani , in modena , italy . portets auctioneers , doubting authenticity , withdraws painting attributed to van gogh from auction in southern france .
 former new_york_times reporter judith_miller testifies at trial of i lewis_libby_jr . argues with william_jeffress , lawyer for libby , over her credibility and memory . testifies that libby told her details about identity of cia operative valerie_wilson days before libby said he learned about wilson from reporters . miller also responds to questions posed by juror . matthew_cooper , former time magazine reporter , testifies that libby discussed wilson during telephone interview on july 12 and recounts learning about wilson on july 11 from karl rove .
 breckenridge and summit county , colo , in fall of 2005 bought 1,840 acres of 8,000-acre horseshoe gold field . with ownership came responsibility for environmental problems and management of landscape that created breckenridge in days of gold rush , but that also suffered some of worst of mining 's effects . buyers agreed to spend about $ 2 million for environmental_cleanup in addition to $ 8.2 million purchase price . academics and experts on mine reclamation -- one of biggest environmental problems of west -- say that breckenridge 's groundbreaking path could change how mine reclamation works .
 sen john_kerry says he will accept democratic nomination at party convention in july , abandoning idea of delay because of substantial financial advantage pres bush will gain from late republican convention . campaigns in seattle , attacking bush on terrorism and national security . photo . convention decision means bush has extra month to spending private contributions and preserve public war chest , while kerry loses five weeks of private fund-raising .
 article on makeover of design district , neighborhood of 18 square blocks that aspires to be miamia 's soho . developer craig_robins ' company dacra has bought 35 properties in district and rehabilitated 20 buildings , with 500,000 square feet of space . robins is area 's largest landlord , with estimated $ 50 million investment . dacra plans to construct new buildings , adding another 500,000 square feet at cost of about $ 100 million .
 op-ed article by timothy_garton ash says prime min tony_blair of britain has made best suggestions for creating larger version of old cold war west , to deal with iraq and beyond . agrees with blair that best way to deal with american unilateralism is not rivaly but partnership . says he made two mistakes : not doing more last sept to bring europe to speak with one voice about iraq , and never saying no to washington . says if blair had gotten european side of his strategy right , there is chance saddam hussein would have yielded to united pressure of west .
 connecticut sen joseph_i_lieberman , campaigning for re-election , emphasizes continued threat of terrorism but sidesteps war in iraq . criticizes white_house without attacking pres bush . democratic challenger ned_lamont responds that antiwar sentiment does not demonize bush but highlights wrong path of administration . observers say lieberman support of iraq war is being used to gain republican support in senate race .
 joyce_purnick column says members of sept 11 commission who took new_york_city 's commissioners to task over emergency preparedness on may 18 quieted down the next day and spared former mayor rudolph_giuliani hard questions . says there must be way to balance valor of sept 11 with legitimate concerns about flaws and failings that might have contributed to unnecessary loss of life , and may again if not addressed .
 donna_l_shirley , retired national_aeronautics_and_space_agency engineer who managed mars exploration program for jet propulsion laboratory from 1994 to 1998 , is head of new science fiction museum and hall of fame in seattle , washington . holds that reading science fiction in her youth influenced her career choice and hopes that museum will inspire others to get involved in science and technology . museum , created by microsoft co-founder paul_g_allen , described . shirley 's career discussed .
 informed sources say gov george e pataki will propose at least $ 1 billion in spending cuts to medicaid , in effort to close state budget gap . say pataki will also call for at least $ 500 million in additional taxes and surcharges on hospitals , nursing homes and other health care providers to help state wrestle with projected budget shortfall of $ 4 billion . medicaid consumes about 44 percent of state 's $ 100 billion budget , but officials have been unable to curb program .
 role of executive assistant has drawn extra scrutiny after disclosure that former new_york_stock_exchange chmn richard a grasso 's assistant , soojee lee , was paid $ 240,000 a year . executive recruiters say that pay for assistants to wall street chief executives may range from $ 100,000 to $ 150,000 in base salary , with select few earning $ 200,000 . there is also potential to earn bonus in either cash or equity of up to 30 percent of that amount . it is not just on wall street where executive assistants stand to gain . financier jeffrey_epstein pays his three assistants over $ 200,000 year .
 beniamin shilom and rozia november , brother and sister separated during world war ii , are reunited after nearly 67 years through records at yad vashem , israeli holocaust memorial . each thought the other had died , when in fact they were living not far apart in israel . shilom became soldier in soviet_union and fought on several fronts . november survived two concentration camps before emigrating to israel after war .
 roles of television anchors peter_jennings , abc_news , tom_brokaw , nbc_news , and dan_rather , cbs_news , seem oddly diminished in time when there is little breaking news at political conventions . all appear resigned that they are no longer giants as they fight for prominence in media world crowded with newcomers , political world where conventions are scripted and corporate culture that is unwilling to give them more than one hour each night for coverage .
 analysis of france 's successful state-led effort to curb its reliance on imported oil in response to 1970 's oil shock , which contrasts with us effort that was gradually abandoned . oil use in france is still 10 percent lower now than in 1973 , while united_states consumption rose 16 percent from 1973 to 2003 in response to lower oil prices . some experts say outlook for substantially higher energy prices in next decade than in 1990 's should force government and industry to rethink basic policies .
 hopstop.com web site tells visitors how to get about new_york by subway and bus , basing its results on time of day , users ' preferences on walking and making transfers and bus and train schedules . is expanding to boston , washington , philadelphia and north jersey . only income now comes from banner and text ads , but founder , chinedu_echeruo , hopes to create partnership with internet mapping and search companies .
 senate , by 50-to-48 vote , rejects democratic resolution to withdraw most american combat troops from iraq in 2008 , but similar measure advances in house . house measure , an emergency spending bill for iraq and afghanistan that includes timeline for withdrawal from iraq , will be voted on next week , setting stage for another confrontation . votes in both houses are along party lines . sen gordon_h_smith is lone republican to vote with democrats in senate , highlighting republican unity in opposition to pullout . pres bush , who had threatened to veto measure , applauds senators who vote against timetable . both parties consider house and senate bills measure of how far debate over iraq has moved in recent months .
 florence fabricant previews some of new restaurants with famous chefs that are to open in time_warner_center at columbus_circle . cites per se , with chef thomas_keller , jean-georges vongerichten 's as-yet-unnamed steakhouse , and masa or bar masa , two new incarnations of masa_takayama 's expensive ginza_sushiko in los_angeles .
 tanks and armored vehicles are entrenched in dunes of beit_lahia as israel steps up military campaign . israel pledges to seize more palestinian-controlled territory in gaza strip unless militants stop firing rockets at israeli targets . at least 15 youths are wounded as hundreds of them periodically charge up dune and throw stones at israeli forces . israeli col yoel_strick , commenting on action , displays map showing new israeli ` security zone ' almost mile wide . operation in gaza , major shift in israel 's military posture , follows palestinian suicide bombing in haifa .
 pentagon is starved for cash to fight today 's wars even as it spends record amount on researching and building weapons for wars of tomorrow . will spend more than $ 500 million on national security in fiscal_year_beginning_oct_1 , but has run $ 1 billion a month short over last year paying for basics of war fighting in iraq . disparity between spending on arsenals of future and armies of today is great and growing , and military experts say reason is that congress does not budget for wars , but pays for them with supplementals and raiding other accounts , such as those for military training , spare parts and maintenance . $ 144 billion that pentagon will spend in coming year on new arms is twice annual costs of wars in iraq and afghanistan , according to independent estimates , and it is bonanza for armament contractors . navy formally introduces new version of tomahawk cruise missile .
 productivity of nation 's workers climbs at annual rate of 5.7 percent in second_quarter , increase that is good news for corporate profits but heightens fears about jobless economic recovery . new claims for unemployment benefits fall by 3,000 , to 390,000 , for week ended aug 2 . it is third consecutive week that new jobless claims are below 400,000 , and many economists consider that to be sign that labor market has stabilized .
 iranian pres mahmoud ahmadinejad arrives in venezuela for talks with pres hugo_chavez on first leg of latin american tour designed to enhance iran 's stature . will travel to ecuador and nicaragua , where leftist presidents aligned with chavez are taking office this month . venezuela has long been vociferous defender of iran against united_states efforts to circumscribe ahmadinejad 's government .
 roman catholic officials in boston say 65 of archdiocese 's 357 parishes will be closed by end of year , a convulsive restructuring caused partly by declining attendance and increased financial problems that were worsened by sexual abuse crisis among clergy members . this may be largest loss of parishes by an american_catholic_diocese at one time , compelling thousands of catholics to find parishes in other neighborhoods and , in some cases , other towns . archbishop sean_p_o'malley comments says there is no alternative .
 nanosys calls off closely watched effort to go public . nanosys and banking team led by merrill_lynch had hoped to sell 6.25 million shares at $ 15 to $ 17 per share , which would have given public 29 percent stake in company . weak market cited . empi , profitable medical device maker , also drops plans to go public .
 article on work of don_gold , 78 , and wife , kathleen , 62 , and some of dozen other elder missionaries in church of jesus christ of latter-day saints who leave homes for 18 months at a time to work with younger missionaries and new converts at new_york north mission headquarters in eastchester , ny . photos .
 debate arises over practice of spraying fresh tuna with carbon_monoxide gas to give bright red color . people in seafood industry estimate that 25 million pounds of treated tuna , about 30 percent of total tuna imports , were brought into united_states last_year , mostly from processors in southeast_asia . fda says processs is harmless , but japan , canada and countries of european_union have banned practice because of fears that it could be used to mask spoiled fish .
 article on female music conductors . describes difficulty women have had gaining acceptance and lack of momentum over last two decades . focuses on marin_alsop , director of bournemouth symphony in england , andrea_quinn , music director of new_york_city ballet and xian_zhang , assistant conductor of new_york_philharmonic , all of whom are working in new_york area this weekend .
 long island power authority plans several power projects that will increase its supply of electricity by 20 percent . has chosen bidders to build 326-megawatt plant in bellport and 80-megawatt plants in bethpage and babylon . will add 39 windmills three miles off coast of fire island . will also lay 67 mile transmission cable from sayreville , nj , to wantagh to tap into power on mainland .
 article on new fortunoff 's retail store in white_plains , ny , sixth in chain which is based in uniondale , long_island . new four-story building will include cheesecake factory and morton 's restaurants and whole foods market . retailer has been hiring employees since may 17 and staff is expected to total 700 , half from westchester_county and half of them full-time workers .
 fran schumer_jersey_column_on_gilda_'s_club of northern new jersey , support community established in honor of actress gilda_radner , who died of ovarian cancer in 1989 . club , one of two in state and 18 in us and canada , is open to anyone who has or had any kind of cancer or love someone who does or did . offers professionally led discussion groups , as well as clubs and classes . members comment .
 pres bush 's re-election campaign strategists expect him to trail or perhaps run even with sen john_kerry through summer . bush will refine stump speech to focus less on accomplishments than on opportunities he has created for future . fear is that bush is not succeeding in defining re-election bid on his own terms . bush still maintains overall approval rating of 50 percent .
 article on various modes of travel between new_york_city and boston with creation of luxury bus service limoliner . descriptions of two round trips , starting in boston on limoliner , returning on amtrak 's acela_express , going back to manhattan on greyhound bus and making final leg home to boston on us airways shuttle .
 jurors in six-month trial of former tyco_international executives l dennis_kozlowski and mark h swartz are disappointed and frustrated after new_york_state_supreme_court_justice_michael_j_obus declares mistrial . obus acts after juror ruth_b_jordan is identified by name in news media and she receives threatening letter from stranger . jurors say they were close to verdict after 12 days of sometimes acrimonious deliberations , and probably would have found defendants guilty of some of 32 charges against them .
 white_house backs away from assertions that iraq had illegal weapons , saying administration wants to compare prewar intelligence assessments with what may be actually found . outgoing weapons inspector dr david_kay 's criticism of prewar intelligence increases pressure on cia and intensifies debate on who shaped reports that pres bush used to justify invasion . white_house stops asserting that weapons will eventually be found , although press secretary scott_mcclellan says bush was right to depose saddam hussein given his history . kay reports scant evidence that hussein had stockpiles of illicit weapons and says cia under george_tenet was wrong in its contrary assessment .
 j k rowling , five days after release of harry_potter and the order of the phoenix , attends book reading and fields questions from around world via internet hookup at royal_albert_hall in london hosted by actor and writer stephen_fry . spectacle , billed as rowling 's only scheduled public event of its kind to discuss book , is attended by 4,000 young people as well as untold millions logging in for live webcast .
 uninvited guest at party in east_new_york section of brooklyn fatally stabs man with icepick and injures three others after an argument . another man is killed and three others wounded after gunshots are fired outside restaurant in flatlands area of brooklyn . one man is killed and three wounded in bronx shooting that involved at least one car and several people on foot near two popular nightclubs .
 democratic presidential candidates are making different decisions about where to focus efforts for far-flung feb 3 primaries . sen john_kerry is campaigning in all seven states . gen wesley_clark is in west but plans return to south_carolina before primary . sen john_edwards has visited new mexico , oklahoma and missouri but plans to return to south_carolina . howard dean 's campaign has faltered but he is still competitive in new mexico and arizona . rev al sharpton is focusing on south_carolina . sen joseph_lieberman is focusing on delaware and oklahoma .
 f david_radler , longtime business partner of former press baron_conrad m black and co-founder of hollinger_international_inc with black , is indicted on fraud charges and agrees to plead guilty and cooperate in investigation . also indicted is mark_kipnis , former general counsel at hollinger_international . charges relate to payments totaling more than $ 32 million made to executives and parent companies of hollinger_international . criminal defense lawyer robert_a_mintz says cooperation by radler can only spell trouble for black .
 nba finals provide for number of intriguing story lines , including san_antonio spurs player david_robinson 's final games and possibility that new jersey nets guard jason_kidd could play for spurs next season . with los_angeles lakers out of contention for first time in four years , winner of finals is harder to predict .
 convicted murderer jabbar_collins files documents accusing brooklyn prosecutor michael_f_vecchione of gross misconduct in handling his case for murder of abraham_pollack . was sentenced in april 1995 to at least 33 years in prison . collins illegally recorded conversation with witnessses against him to obtain information . through that and other methods he claims that he can show that witnesses were offered incentives to cooperate . vecchione denies offering deals to witnesses in case .
 new_york state legislative officials say they will give mayor michael_bloomberg permission to dole out $ 400 property tax rebates for homeowners as part of financial aid package for new_york_city . will also move to begin paying out money promised last year for refinancing city 's debt from 1970 's fiscal crisis . plan calls for allowing city to borrow more money to pay off remaining debt and then giving city $ 170 million year to begin paying back that new debt .
 google , highflying silicon_valley web search company , recently began holding meetings with bankers in preparation for its highly anticipated initial public offering as it still engaged in meetings exploring partnership or even merger with microsoft . microsoft , desperate to capture part of popular and ad-generating search business , approached google within last two months to discuss options , including possibility of takeover . overture demonstrates enormous importance that google represents as both competitive threat to microsoft and as silicon_valley 's latest hope for new financial boom .
 jack_curry around the majors column discusses san_francisco_giants , which have 12-game lead in national league west . atlanta braves pitcher greg_maddux is poised to become first pitcher to win 15 games for 16 straight seasons . seattle_mariners second baseman bret_boone needs seven more home runs to surpass former chicago cubs second baseman ryne_sandberg for most by second basemen in three-year period .
 article on growing number of parents in westchester_county , ny , who use camp consultants to help them choose day or sleep-away camps for their children . jill_tipograph , partner with summer_solutions_inc 's new_york branch , susan_kasnett , consultant with student summers_inc and joanne_paltrowitz of camp experts and teen summers comment .
 royal_festival_hall in london has been closed for renovation since june 2005 and is scheduled to reopen in june 2007 . displacement of london philharmonic and philharmonia has put financial squeeze on orchestras . uncertainty over completion date has also caused foreign orchestras to cancel visits . how london 's music world deals with closing could provide road map for what will happen in new_york when avery_fischer_hall undergoes renovation , forcing temporary displacement of new_york_philharmonic .
 plans devised by pentagon and cia over last_decade or more to divide and crack iraqi government have not gone as well as in first days of war as some officials envisioned . setbacks , including apparent failure to kill saddam_hussein on first night of war or to cut off communications between leadership and its forces , revive simmering tensions between cia and pentagon . senior officials now acknowledge that few iraqis in leadership , military or even in towns and villages seem prepared to resist hussein 's rule until certain of his death or removal from power .
 bush administration seeks ambassador for very tough job succeeding administrator l paul_bremer ii when sovereignty is restored in iraq at end of june . appointee will run largest us_embassy and will need excellent rapport with pres bush , us military commanders and top state and defense_department officials who have feuded over policy for year . bremer is said to resist giving up any power until transfer , reportedly forcing sec colin_powell to insist on his cooperation with process .
 francois-henri_pinault , head of french retail and fashion empire pinault printemps-redoute , elects not to renew contracts of gucci chief executive domenico de sole and creative director tom_ford . pinault , which spent $ 5 billion in 1999 to acquire majority stake in gucci , plans to spend another $ 2.7 billion to acquire remainder of fashion company . decision is seen as large risk for future of gucci , which as yet contributes only a small portion of pinault 's overall revenue , and confirms that pinault has taken over effective leadership of firm from his father francois_pinault .
 article discusses why ultrarich men wed again and again , despite very costly prenuptial agreements . notes that ronald_o_perelman , forbes_magazine 's 34th-richest man in america , recently announced that he was divorcing his fourth wife , actress ellen_barkin , and would pay out $ 20 million promised in their prenuptial pact -- having paid $ 8 million , $ 80 million and $ 30 million , respectively , to wives 1,2 and 3 . divorce lawyer harriet_newman_cohen says for many of ultrarich , prenuptial is simply part of business deal that is marriage . says they see it like hedge fund .
 israeli cabinet decides to freeze transfer of $ 50 million per month in tax and customs receipts due to palestinian authority , arguing that hamas-dominated legislature means that militant group now leads palestinians . cabinet decides to wait on other penalties it was considering , but withholding receipts puts it at odds with united_states and rest of so-called quartet , european_union , russia and united_nations . israeli move will change shortfall of bankrupt palestinian authority from $ 60 million a month to $ 110 million . hamas says it will seek aid from muslim countries , including iran . israel and quartet have threatened to reduce aid to palestinian authority unless new government recognizes israel 's right to exist , renounces violence and accepts previous israeli-palestinian peace agreements . hamas rejects conditions but is said to be seeking wording to satisfy at least part of world community .
 museum of modern art braces for possible pandemonium at temporary home in long_island_city , queens , during upcoming matisse_picasso_exhibition , which drew huge crowds in london and paris . expects 4,000 visitors per day at comparatively small 25,000-square - foot space . is issuing timed $ 20 tickets that will admit people every half hour . 85,000-square - foot home in midtown manhattan is undergoing renovation .
 mamdouh habib , egyptian-born australian with intense devotion to radical islam , was in us custody for over three years . he was transported from pakistan to afghanistan to egypt to prison at guantanamo_bay . us designated him ` enemy combatant , ' saying he admitted to having prior knowledge of sept 11 attacks and to having trained some of hijackers . habib says he confessed while in egypt only to stop waves of torture . habib 's journey came to unexpected end on jan 28 at sydney 's international_airport when he stepped off executive jet and was set free .
 private liberal arts colleges are routinely offering merit aid to students in effort to compete with state universities , whose tuition is low , and elite private institutions . result is varied college pricing system where students sometimes shop for best deal . amount of money granted in merit scholarships has grown from $ 1.2 billion in 1994 to $ 7.3 billion in 2004 . need-based grants have grown in same period from $ 18.6 billion to $ 39.1 billion .
 thousands of families in florida remain displaced at end of hurricane season that left much of state in ruins . gov jeb bush and federal emergency management agency dir michael_d_brown said that every hurricane victim who needed it would have free temporary housing by thanksgiving . close to 2,000 famililes are waiting for small trailers or larger mobile homes that fema will provide for up to 18 months . agency is getting up to 100 new requests every day for temporary housing , often from people who held out in battered homes until mold made them sick or inspectors forced them out . red cross estimates that about 25,000 homes were destroyed in hurricanes and that another 50,000 suffered major damage .
 peter_goldmark play the trial of osama_bin_laden , which he wrote with mark_gerzon , will be performed at old arizona theater in minneapolis . goldmark was executive director of port_authority from 1977 to 1985 and his antiterrorist task force predicted 1993 attack on world trade center . goldmark wants his play to spark public awareness and action and give americans concerned about terrorism venue for reflection and dialogue .
 mitsubishi_tokyo_financial_group agrees to provide 700 billion yen -lrb- $ 6.4 billion -rrb- in emergency financing to ufj_holdings in exchange for shares it could use to block bid from rival sumimoto_mitsui_financial_group . agreement moves mitsubishi_tokyo step closer to taking over ufj by october 2005 . sumitomo mitsui pledges to continue pursuit of ufj .
 many frequent fliers , especially business travelers , are concerned about their frequent flier miles in light of so many bankruptcies in airline industry . e-rewards market research survey finds active frequent fliers hold average of 70 percent more unredeemed miles than they did during bankruptcies of 1990 's . insideflyer magazine estimated in 1992 that travelers had amassed total of 1.4 trillion miles .
 arts briefing column . initial findings of study by marquette_university 's college of communications show that most articles in 10 newspapers with largest circulation in us , categorized as straight news reports , were either neutral or positive about mel_gibson 's film the passion of the christ . finds that new_york_times ran most articles , 63 , about film between january 1 and march 20 and los_angeles times next highest , at 58 .
 steps taken by saudi king abdullah that go against american interests are causing bush administration officials to question usefulness of longtime american_reliance on former amb prince bandar_bin_sultan , who had assured them of saudi cooperation . moves include brokering of power-sharing agreement between palestinian fatah and hamas factions that did not require hamas to recognize israel . most biting surprise is condemnation of american invasion of iraq by king_abdullah .
 hearing begins in virginia juvenile court on whether 17-year-old lee_malvo should be tried as adult on capital murder charges in october 2001 fatal shooting of linda_franklin in falls church , va . prosecutors say fingerprints , notes and phone calls to investigators all link malvo to sniper attacks that left 10 people dead in washington area . say malvo and john_muhammad sought through attacks to force government to give in to their demands for $ 10 million . linda_franklin 's husband william testifies . malvo 's lawyers cross-examine witnesses about collection and analysis of evidence and seem to suggest that franklin might have had other enemies .
 fbi interviews two officials at american_israel_public_affairs_committee who are suspected of passing classified information from pentagon analyst lawrence a franklin to israeli intelligence . steven_rosen has wide-ranging contacts within bush administration and keith_weissman is expert on iran , which is franklin 's subject area . amb daniel_ayalon says ` categorically ' that israel does not spy on us .
 new study by amnesty_international , almost 20 years after gas leak at union carbide pesticide factory in bhopal , india , that immediately killed 7,000 people and sickened several thousand others , finds that survivors still await proper compensation and adequate medical care and companies have gone unpunished . says over 20,000 people have died and 100,000 people are living with chronic illnesses . charges union carbide and dow_chemical , which acquired it , as well as indian government are evading human rights responsibilities .
 franz lidz article on brothers_langley and homer_collyer , legendary pack rats who lived in mansion in harlem with 180 tons of ephemera , and some other new_york_city hoarders . lidz , author of book ghosty men : the strange but true story of the collyer_brothers , new_york 's greatest hoarders , describes hoarding habits of his 88-year-old uncle arthur_lidz .
 ray_daniels , overnight traffic reporter on 1010 wins , broadcasts from shadow traffic offices in rutherford , nj . he was born and raised in glasgow , scotland , and can not vanquish his brogue entirely for more than few seconds . daniels , like most of his colleagues , uses several alter egos to get work doing traffic reporting on competing stations . he was joe_donahue on wcbs-am , but that job fizzled after it was decided that listeners probably realized that joe_donahue and ray_daniels were one and same . daniels says nighttime traffic reporting requires finding ` different ways to say nothing ' every 10 minutes .
 veteran fbi agent barry_lee_bush is fatally wounded by another agent 's accidentally discharged weapon during confrontation with three gunmen outside pnc_bank in readington township , nj . agents were part of extensive federal , state and local task force investigating series of nj bank robberies . suspects wilfredo_berrios and michael_cruz are captured , but third suspect , identified as francisco j herrera-genao , flees into densely wooded area and is being hunted by more than 300 troopers , search dogs and helicopters . witnesses say they heard three shots and fbi officials say that suspects did not fire their weapons .
 more than 40 heads of state and cabinet ministers , many from europe , gather in jerusalem for opening of new holocaust museum at yad vashem . exhibits try to put human face on unimaginable horror , telling story of six million jewish dead , names of half still unknown , through personal diaries , images and testimonies . photo . prime min ariel_sharon , un sec gen kofi_annan and others speak . mayor michael_bloomberg_leads_us_delegation .
 la cote d ' or , michelin three-star restaurant in burgundy region of france , continues to draw customers and rave reviews even after shocking suicide of bernard_loiseau in february . loiseau 's widow and collaborator dominique continues to work there . former pastry chef patrick_bertron has taken over in kitchen . debate about whether to develop new dishes or stick with loiseau 's menu discussed .
 pres bush names zalmay_khalilzad , ambassador to afghanistan , as new ambassador to iraq . photo . blunt , garrulous afghan-american replaces john_negroponte , who found job so aggravating he asked to leave after less than year . khalilzad helped oversee afghan reconstruction and elections and is longtime protege of vice pres cheney and deputy sec paul_wolfowitz .
 editorial , in series making votes count , notes that california sec of state kevin_shelley is expected to decide whether state 's electronic voting machines can be used in november . holds that his office has issued two disturbing studies on machine malfunctions in march 2 primary and on misconduct of diebold_inc , one of nation 's leading voting machine manufacturers , that make strong case against current system .
 seven members of family , including three children , are shot to death in indianapolis home in what police believe began as robbery . police have arrested james_stewart and are searching for second suspect , desmond_turner . victims are flora_albarran , her son , luis , alberto_covarrubias , his wife , emma_valdez , their sons , alberto and david , and valdez 's son magno_albarran .
 failure of congress to pass new budgets for current fiscal year has produced crisis in science financing . congress passed just two of 11 spending bills last year , resulting in reductions of about 3 percent to 4 percent in budgets for most fields of science and engineering . congressional democrats plan to keep most government agencies operating under their current budgets until next fall . review of projects affected by budget freeze .
 israeli prime min ariel_sharon says there is opportunity for ` historic breakthrough ' with palestinians , offering some of his most optimistic comments since mahmoud_abbas 's election on jan 9 . abbas has called for formal cease-fire agreement with israel , and his prime min ahmed qurei has issued weapons ban that will initially apply to gaza_strip and jericho on west_bank .
 roche , swiss pharmaceutical giant , says that it had agreed to buy igen international of gaithersburg , md , for $ 1.26 billion -- - and then give nearly the whole company back to igen 's shareholders . roche would come away from deal with one major benefit : a perpetual license to use igen 's patented amino acid-based technology in its diagnostic tests without paying royalties . purchase price roche agrees to is $ 47.25 a share .
 family from china 's fujian province endures cramped quarters in new_york for a decade , learning english and restaurant trade , and then makes move to hiawassee , ga , to run a chinese restaurant . pay same rent on 1,250-square - foot apartment with two bedrooms in hiawassee as they did for 250-square-foot room in new_york . their story is similar to that of other fujianese , who have come to new_york in waves over last_decade and are now fanning out across the country .
 south korean tourists are expected to cross demilitarized zone and enter north_korea at rate of 1,500 a day by next summer . korean_peninsula 's two opposing armies still watch each other across demilitarized zone , but traffic surging through two holes in zone indicates that south_korea is reaching out to north as never before , perhaps out of fear that north could become economic colony of china .
 report by london police commissioner sir john_stevens says officers from british_army intelligence and royal ulster constabulary actively helped protestant guerrillas kill roman catholics in late 1980 's , operated without effective control and participated in terrorist crimes . stevens , speaking in belfast , says his 14-year investigation highlights collusion , failure to keep records , withholding of intelligence and evidence . original probe involved 1989 murder of catholic_civil rights lawyer patrick_finucane . stevens says that murder could have been prevented by officials who knew that finucane was target .
 high price of beef cheers cattle ranchers , who are getting 90 cents to $ 1.15 per pound , often more than $ 1,000 per head , well above 85-cent peak 10 years ago and up 30 to 40 cents in past year . ranchers , betting prices will not last long , are slaughtering cattle sooner and depleting herds of heifers they would otherwise use to build new herds . calf crop is expected to be 38 million head , smallest since 1951 . another result is scarcity of grades that come from well-fattened steer . consumer prices have risen about 10 percent in restaurants and supermarkets . agriculture dept predicts high prices are likely to stick for two more years .
 three people are killed and 23 are wounded after bombs destroy two buses northeast of beirut . it is first attack directed at ordinary civilians since end of civil war in 1990 . victims say that message is to spread fear and discourage people from attending memorial for former prime min rafik_hariri , who was assassinated two years ago .
 developers rafik abboud and son michael_purchase lot at southwest corner of staten_island for $ 1.1 million . already own several warehouses in area and have acquired an eclectic collection of tenants , including gymnastics_center owned by bulgarian_national_champion , staten_island school of rock recording studio and circle of love fellowship -- at the warehouse church .
 pentagon-commissioned report concludes air_force does not need to replace its aging tanker fleet immediately , conclusion that could spell end of $ 20 billion lease proposal by air_force and boeing_co . says if air_force is compelled to do something now , there are many options other than leasing new 767 aircraft from boeing for use as aerial tankers .
 pres bush in pakistan shows strong support for pres pervez_musharraf 's efforts in combating militants but makes clear that pakistan should not expect civilian nuclear agreement like that with india . says bluntly that two rivals can not be compared to each other . critics of bush 's nuclear agreement with india say it will only encourage other nations to demand similar arrangements .
 defense sec donald_rumsfeld , at international_munich_conference on security policy , blames saddam_hussein 's ` deception and defiance ' for iraq war . concedes prewar intelligence failures must be reviewed , but defends pre-emptive action . tone surprises europeans who had expected tempered , if not conciliatory , speech . german foreign min joschka_fischer , with whom rumsfeld sparred at last year 's conference , calls for united_states and europe to work together .
 workmen complete restoration of 90 west street in manhattan , building that was severely damaged by collapse of 2 world_trade_center during sept 11 attacks . landmark former office building was designed by architect cass_gilbert in 1907 . $ 148-million restoration includes re-creation of 7,000 pieces of terra_cotta , including more than 100 gargoyles . photos . building owner , city_housing_department , supplied $ 106.5 million in liberty bonds with remaining financing coming from reconstruction partners . building will have 410 rental apartments .
 theodore_kheel , who was mediator of many labor disputes in 1960 's and 70 's , is still active at age of 89 as lawyer and chairman of grupo_punto_cana , land developers . residents of carroll_gardens , boerum_hill and cobble hill in brooklyn are slow to adopt coinage bococa for neighborhood .
 sen charles_grassley says fda officials asked canadian regulators not to pull hyperactivity drug adderall xr from market because agency could not handle another ` drug safety crisis ' . bases contention on reports from whistle-blowers within fda . dr robert_peterson , health canada official , disputes statement and fda declines to respond directly . fda is allowing drug to continue to be sold in us , and says there is little evidence that it caused 20 deaths that precipitated canada 's recall . grassley demands that fda answer questions about discussions officials may have had with canadians about drug . shire pharmaceuticals maintains drug is safe and effective .
 vice pres dick_cheney and his top legal advisor david_s_addington argued after sept 11 attacks that national_security_agency should intercept purely domestic telephone calls and e-mail messages without warrants , but nsa lawyers insisted intercepts should be limited to communications into and out of country . it remains unclear how then-nsa director gen michael_v_hayden designed program , persuaded wary nsa officials to go along and sold it to bush administration . hayden faces confirmation hearings as director of central_intelligence_agency next week .
 ` buy america ' provisions rep duncan_hunter , house_armed_services_committee chairman , inserted into house version of bill authorizing coming year 's defense budget have set him on collision course with his many friends at pentagon and among military contractors that buy many parts abroad . his proposal would cut back sharply on foreign content allowed in american military goods and provide list of items that only american companies could supply . defense sec_ronald_h_rumsfeld has said he will ask pres bush to veto 2004 pentagon budget if hunter does not back down . hunter defends proposal , interview .
 arts briefing column . world monuments fund and getty_conservation_institute , working with unesco and iraqi_ministry_of_culture , announce joint program to protect endangered monuments and archaeological sites in iraq in aftermath of war . british supermarket manager clive_woodall comments on publication of his fantasy novel , one for sorrow : two for joy , whose film rights have been sold to disney for $ 1 million .
 former brooke_astor aide alice_perdue says astor 's son anthony_d_marshall started directing her in 2003 to process checks totaling about $ 900,000 from astor 's accounts that were used to invest in theater productions in which marshall and his wife charlene were involved . says investments were departure from usual expenditures made on astor 's behalf and that change in direction coincided with decline in astor 's health . marshall is facing charges by son philip_marshall that his father has enriched himself at astor 's expense .
 states hope to be big winners if congress passes medicare drug benefit allowing them to shift expenses from their own programs onto new federal program . savings could reach billions of dollars a year , depending on how differences between house and senate versions of bill are settled in conference_committee . new_york could be biggest beneficiary because it spends more than any another state on health care programs , including $ 3 billion on drug coverage .
 david_kay , who was named in june to head search for illegal weapons in iraq , gives closed-door briefings to two senate committees . says teams searching for evidence of illegal weapons are making ` solid progress ' but he also counsels patience . his conservative statements fit with new and more cautious approach by bush administration in continuing debate over iraq 's weapons . kay 's appointment was one of first concrete signs of pres bush 's dissatisfaction with way in which search for iraq 's weapons programs had been handled by pentagon .
 article on scene at westway_motel in east_elmhurst , queens , which has served for 21 years as initial stop for refugees fleeing war or persecution before they begin next leg of their journey to safety in america . westway is one of only eight motels nationwide , and only one in new_york , that serves this role through auspices of international organization for migration . members of julu family , who emigrated from refugee camp in war-torn liberia , comment .
 cancer research program at stratton_veterans_affairs_medical_center in albany , ny , exemplifies systematic weaknesses in human research protections program cited in internal memorandum of veterans affairs dept in 2003 , especially in industry-funded studies , which account for about 80 percent of department 's human research . internal whistleblowers at stratton faced reprisals . food and drug administration and general_accounting_office investigative teams found pattern of non-compliance with regulations . external non-profit national_committee for quality assurance began ongoing accreditation process for program in 2001 , and has accredited just under one third of 118 research centers .
 metropolitan transportation authority says it must come up with at least $ 14 billion in new revenue over next five years to cover day-to-day operations , payments on its debts , maintenance and planned capital improvements . experts say authority needs much higher fares or billions of dollars in additional help from city hall , albany and washington -- or combination of both . mta chairman peter_s_kalikow is asking for more government support and regular fare increases every two years .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column says that while republicans say sen barack_obama lacks experience one should have to run for president in 2008 , it has been supposed experience of bush administration team -- vice pres cheney , defense_sec rumsfeld , sec of state condi_rice and former cia director george_tenet -- that has led to only to endless blunders in iraq and made world more dangerous after 9/11 .
 number of illegal immigrants trying to enter united_states using waterways and bridges that separate new_york state from canada is growing . edward_duda , border patrol deputy chief of buffalo sector , says anyone crossing border illegally is treated as terrorist . human smuggling has become quite lucrative , with passage costing as much as $ 40,000 for each adult . agents in buffalo have caught 65 people so far this year , pace well ahead of 2003 .
 previously undisclosed document reveals that coast_guard analysts raised possibility of security risks associated with dubai company managing some us ports . bush administration officials appearing before senate panel say coast_guard concerns were addressed before deal was approved . document shows that coast_guard officials were worried about backgrounds of dubai ports world employees , and potential terrorism risks . company has asked bush administration to conduct full review that interagency panel deemed unnecessary in january .
 attorney roderick_macleish attributes deal that will pay $ 85 million to 550 people who say they were sexually abused by priests to boston archbishop sean_p_o'malley 's capuchin franciscan heritage . says o'malley 's vow of poverty may have made it easier for him to agree quickly to generous settlement , part of which will come from selling off some church property . o'malley was surprise attendee at mediation meeting where settlement was reached .
 david_carr column on e-mail written by andrea_smith , producer at nbc 's today show , to st_martin 's press , publisher of laurence_leamer 's new book on gov arnold_schwarzeneggar of california , stating that an appearance by leamer on program to promote book would need approval of maria_shriver , schwarzenegger 's wife and former reporter on nbc 's dateline program . leamer says that when he brought this to shriver 's attention , she told him that she felt book , called fantastic , was going to make her husband look good and her bad . spokeswoman for today and john_murphy of st_martin 's press deny that there is anything behind today 's decision not to interview leamer .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg_and_district_council 1707 of_american_federation_of_state , county and municipal employees -- union representing 7,000 day care workers -- announce tentative settlement in one of city 's longest-running contract disputes . old contact expired over four years ago . union leaders representing workers at 346 day care centers say settlement will give its members immediate 12 percent raise and additional 2 percent in april .
 israeli prime min ariel sharon apologizes to egypt after israeli_army tank crew fires on egyptian patrol near gaza_border , killing three egyptian policemen . tank crew , working in dark , mistook police for palestinian terrorists trying to plant explosives . pres hosni_mubarak reportedly accepts apology , although egypt issues strong protest . israel does not want to disrupt high-level meeting on encouraging egyptians to stop arms smuggling along border . hamas political leader sheik_hassan_yussef is released after two years in israeli jail .
 article on large-scale campaign being undertaken by government to draw foreign filmmakers to iceland to blur line between what is american film and what is icelandic one . rebate program that pays foreign filmmakers 12 percent of movie 's production costs in iceland has already given more than $ 1.2 million this year .
 european leaders caustically blame each other for disarray after failed european_union summit . prime min dominique de villepin castigates britain for its annual rebate while defending billions of dollars in subsidies to french farmers . pres jacques chirac also defends subsidy system , which british prime tony_blair calls anachronism that sucks money from economic development . prime min aleksander_kwasniewski postpones poland 's referendum on constitution . chancellor gerhard_schroder blames britain and netherlands for meeting 's failure . dutch prime min jan-peter_balkenende calls schroder 's talk of national egotism unhelpful .
 h j heinz 's stock price fell about 20 percent during its last fiscal year , when chief executive william_r_johnson got 47 percent raise , so heinz 's annual proxy statement includes second chart showing how shareholders fared not during last fiscal year but over more recent eight-month period . by that measure , heinz has outperformed its competitors . johnson photo .
 interview with new_york_stock_exchange interim chariman john_s_reed , who must decide whether to sue deposed chairman , richard_a_grasso , and former board members who awarded him $ 139.5 million pay package that led to his downfall . says data in exchange 's internal probe led by dan_k_webb could support suit against former directors . notes suit could be filed by exchange board , securities_and_exchange_commission , new_york atty gen eliot spitzer or some combination of three , or by exchange members if board decides not to act .
 sales of solar power cells in us rose sevenfold between 1993 and 2002 as homeowners and businesses turned to clean , quiet , homegrown source of electricity . rev george_buchanan says he spent $ 19,000 on roof panels at wheaton , maryland , home two years ago out of principle and appreciates step toward self-sufficiency , even though he does not save money and still has to buy more power than surplus amount he sells to utility on sunny days .
 thousands of tourists come to cancun , mexico , every year to swim with dolphins , paying $ 100 for hour 's swim at water parks or even at a mall . environmentalists and animal rights advocates , who have claimed this lucrative business is cruel to dolphins , are outraged over recent deaths of two captive dolphins at amusement_park . their past protests led mexican government to ban capture of local dolphins . protesters are turning tourist-rich yucatan_peninsula , with its nine swim programs , into front lines of dolphin wars .
 bureau of alcohol , tobacco , firearms and explosives will collect and evaluate evidence of illegal gun purchases gathered by new_york_city undercover operatives to aid city 's suit against 15 gun dealers in five states . dealers in georgia , ohio , pennsylvania , south_carolina and virginia are accused in suit of selling guns that are used to commit crimes in new_york_city .
 computer experts and executives like using google but are overwhelmingly bearish on google 's widely anticipated offering . mounting skepticism about stock offering has not been helped by various snags . anticipated initial share price of $ 108 to $ 135 is based on assumption of continued rapid growth by google , but that growth has lately shown signs of slowing . comments by apple_computer co-founder stephen_wozniak and sun_microsystems executive john cage comment .
 jim_rasenberger article describes some once-grand schemes that never materialized in new_york_city . recalls ideas to build double-decker bridge across hudson_river from west 57th street to weehawken , nj , elevate sidewalks in midtown , hang apartment houses from suspension bridge cables , build 40-story church at broadway and west 173rd street , add moving sidewalks to williamsburg bridge , build railroad passenger conveyor between times square and grand central and cut new north-south thoroughfare through midtown . dr awings .
 general motors surprises auto industry by posting strong sales in february , when its new chevrolet silverado pickup unseated ford f-series for title of best-selling vehicle . automakers say their overall sales were flat in february , compared with 2006 . ward 's automobile bank says gm had 3.7 percent increase in sales . ford_motor sales fell 14.3 percent , while sales at daimlerchrysler dropped 7.7 percent .
 new_york_city averts layoffs of at least 140 defense lawyers for poor with $ 11 million infusion of cash to help shrink legal aid society 's deficit , projected to swell to $ 20 million next year . mayor michael_bloomberg also agrees not to seek $ 2 million cut he proposed . agreement is important step in helping agency repair its crumbling finances . as condition of bailout , city will appoint team to oversee agency 's spending and conduct regular audits of its books .
 floyd norris column on internal problems at morgan_stanley that dates to 1997 when morgan_stanley ageed to merge with dean witter . says morgan_stanley has not been hired bhy any of parties in mci merger contest with qwest and verizon and may miss out on bonanza , but that may be just as well because morgan_stanley bankers have other battles to wage .
 alexandra_creel_goelet , conservationist , and husband , investor robert_g_goelet , issue statement that family will strive to maintain gardiners_island off long_island 's south fork -- owned by gardiner family for nearly 400 years -- as family home . local officials and conservation groups agree that goelets , who gained ownership upon recent death of robert_david_lion_gardiner , have been able stewards . statement does not , however , guarantee that island will never be developed .
 report by new_york_city comptroller william_c_thompson finds that quasi-public_economic_development_corp has been used to pay for items from sport utility vehicles for top city officials to ceremonial keys for celebrities . corporation , which raises money by selling and leasing city-owned properties , paid $ 7,000 for going-away party for chief of staff catherine_giuliani , former mayor 's cousin , and $ 11,222 for president michael_carey , former governor 's son . mayor michael_bloomberg says financing of vehicles is ending .
 joyce_purnick column criticizes pres george w bush for devoting only five sentences in his inaugural address to direct needs of americans , like 1,034,415 new yorkers who visited city-supported food pantries in november 2004 , up from 885,400 in november 2003 . says most people who use food pantries do so not because they are hungry , but because they are needy and are trying to free up money for other necessities .
 sen john_kerry proposes spending $ 30 billion over 10 years to recruit , coach and reward better teachers . says plan would attract , or keep from quitting , 500,000 teachers over four years . major part of plan is to set aside $ 9 billion to get school districts to raise teacher salaries and also to reward teachers who demonstrate excellence using measurements that include standardized test scores , issue that could meet with opposition from unions .
 back-to-back ousters of heads of germany 's deutsche_telekom and volkswagen show how treacherous life is becoming in germany for corporate bosses , caught between new breed of aggressive investors and old set of stubborn problems . deutsche_telekom names rene_obermann to succeed kai-uwe_ricke , who resigned after losing confidence of leading shareholders , german government and american private equity firm blackstone_group . volkswagen 's chief executive bernd pischetsrieder was forced out last week after lengthy struggle with company 's chairman ferdinand_k_piech , who is also increasingly powerful shareholder . both executives were scrambling to streamline their companies in face of withering global competition .
 sen lincoln_chafee , lone republican on senate foreign relations committee to reserve judgment on pres bush 's choice of john_r_bolton to be ambasssador to united_nations , may cast deciding vote when panel votes on appointment . white_house is pressing him to vote in favor , while his constituents in heavily democratic rhode_island are urging him to vote against , prodded in part by sen john_kerry of nearby mass .
 gunmen assassinate representative of iraq 's most powerful shiite cleric grand ayatollah_ali_al-sistani and five other people in attack south of baghdad . north of baghdad , 3 people are killed and 13 wounded when car bomb explodes in front of shiite mosque . attacks raise prospect of sectarian strife ahead of jan 30 elections . assassination appears to be message to sistani , who strongly supports vote .
 world trade center developer larry a silverstein and government officials fail to reach agreement on rebuilding at site . new_york gov george e pataki and silverstein neared deal but port authority of new_york and new jersey , owner of site , mayor_michael_r_bloomberg and new jersey gov jon s corzine continue to question financial aspects . discussions focus on building of freedom tower .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's concern about police-community relations following shooting of sean_bell_outside_nightclub in queens in november prompts him to examine civilian complaint review board and increase its funding by $ 1.5 million . board 's budget is about $ 10 milion . new funds will enable it to retain 25 more staff members . many feel board is struggling because of increasing number of complaints .
 yoweri_museveni , president of uganda for 19 years , speaks passionately of his desire for modern , robust and , most of all , peaceful uganda , and he has disappointed those who were hoping for western-style democracy to emerge in full flower in 21st-century africa . opposition leader kizza_besigye is in prison as uganda prepares for first multiparty election . uganda 's press , feisty and independent , frequently earns museveni 's wrath .
 patriotic_union_of_kurdistan , kurdish political party working with united_states to shape interim government in iraq , pushes ahead quietly on three oil development projects , acting autonomously as local government . party has signed production-sharing contracts with two turkish companies to develop and survey oilfields in northeast iraq , and has agreed to allow australian company to do surveying work in eastern iraq .
 russell_simmons , hip-hop impresario turned social activist , is latest celebrity foot soldier in publicity war that people for the ethical treatment of animals is waging against kfc . simmons calls for boycott of kfc in full-page advertisement in courier-journal in louisville , kfc 's hometown newspaper . simmon 's ad is letter urging david_c_novak , chief executive of yum_brands , to require its poultry suppliers to improve their practices for raising and slaughtering chickens . yum brands owns kfc . photo .
 bush administration 's plan to rewrite tax code by eliminating federal deduction for state and local taxes worries new_york and other states that levy high taxes . change would include property taxes . change would affect about 3.2 million of new_york 's households , about 38 percent , three-quarters of whom are middle - and low-income homes . new_york_city residents would be especially hard hit because they also pay city income taxes . tax experts say change would be offset by tax cuts in areas like savings and investment and would allow adjustment of alternative minimum tax . it would cost nation about $ 400 billion over 10 years .
 swing states of ohio , west_virginia , pennsylvania , michigan and wisconsin have become focus of 2004 presidential campaign . having fallen behind economically , they have surged to forefront politically on wings of their industrial frailty . analysts from midwest say national debate has not been distorted by one region because states like ohio and michigan are perfect microcosms of nation .
 cooperative home care_associates , worker-owned home health agency in south_bronx , has won acclaim in field for paying workers twenty percent more than other agencies and providing job training and health insurance , rarity for low-wage home care workers . photos . workers nevertheless joined local 1199 of service employees union last year , impressed by union 's lobbying of new_york state for more funding .
 american aircraft fire at equipment storehouses and hideouts of foreign fighters in falluja as troops try to reassert control over unruly_city . turkish television broadcasts video in which man says habib_akdas , leader of turkish al_qaeda_cell , was killed in bombing raid this week . insurgents who kidnapped italian aid workers simona pari and simona_torretta earlier this week west of baghdad demand release of muslim female prisoners in iraq .
 estimated $ 32.4 billion was given by nation 's roughly 66,000 independent , community and corporate foundations in 2004 , compared with $ 30.3 billion in 2003 and 4.1 percent increase when adjusted for inflation . figures are compiled by foundation center , which tracks and analyzes grants and asset movements and reports on trends . increase in 2004 more than makes up for 2.6 percent decrease on inflation-adjusted basis in 2003 .
 federal grand jury indicts earth liberation front members chelsea_d_gerlach , stanislas_g_meyerhoff , josephine s overaker and rebecca_j_rubin on arson charges for devastating fires at vail_mountain_resort in 1998 . gerlach and meyerhoff are in custody on other charges and overaker and rubin are believed to be out of country .
 thousands of iraqi expatriates in us and 13 other countries begin three days of voting to choose 275-member national assembly in iraq 's first democratic election in 50 years . many voters express fear about vote in their homeland . some beg loved ones to abstain rather than risk bombs that insurgents have promised . registration in us is sparse , with 1 in 10 signing up among estimated 240,000 eligible iraqis .
 indonesian bank restructuring agency is plotting its own extinction , selling all it can of its vast holdings and preparing to close difficult chapter in nation 's economic life . agency , established at height of asian financial crisis in 1998 as part of international monetary fund 's $ 14.1 billion bailout of indonesia , is scheduled to close by end of february . recouped by end of june about 146 trillion rupiah -lrb- $ 17.4 billion -rrb- of 650 trillion rupiah -lrb- $ 77.5 billion -rrb- spent in resuscitating banking system . chairman syafruddin a temenggung comments .
 six episcopalian churches in connecticut reject authority of bishop andrew_smith over his liberal views on homosexuality and support for consecration of gay bishop , v gene_robinson . stop paying their diocesan dues . smith threatens to remove pastors if they do not rejoin fold by april 15 . rebellion is latest in episcopal church resulting from consecration of robinson and church 's softening stand on gay marriage . rev christopher_leighton and rev allyn_benedict are cited among dissident pastors .
 floyd norris comment on investing in five-year treasury note that has after-tax yield of 1.47 percent or standard_&_poor 's index of 500 stocks , which collectively have yield of 1.77 percent now . says investor has to be pessimistic to think overall market wo n't beat after-tax return of 1.47 percent for five years that is now being so ungenerously offered by treasury .
 william_broyles jr op-ed article says nasa 's experience with space shuttle should cause energy department to shelve its proposal to produce plutonium 238 in idaho falls , idaho , for unspecified national security purposes and possibly to power future deep-space missions . says that while risk of failure in nasa 's case is borne by handful of brave astronauts , risks of failure of proposed plutonium reactor will be borne by hundreds of thousands , perhaps millions , of downwind americans who have no choice in matter .
 federal communications commission issues notice of $ 550,000 fine against cbs_television division of viacom_inc because of incident during super bowl halftime show in which justin_timberlake pulled part of janet_jackson 's outfit exposing her breast . penalty , which comprises fines of $ 27,500 against each of 20 stations that cbs owns and operates , is largest levied against television company . cbs has 30 days to respond to notice of fine .
 city council speaker gifford_miller proposes that new_york spend $ 12.9 billion on school construction , renovations and repairs over next five years . does not offer plan on how to pay for projects that are outlined in report he released with councilwoman eva_s_moskowitz . mayor michael_r_bloomberg acknowledges need , but says city must consider all priorities .
 dale_s_hausner , one of two men charged in series of killings in phoenix area , proclaims his innocence and says his roommate , samuel_j_dieteman , may have taken his car and guns to commit crimes . two are booked on suspicion of first-degree murder and attempted murder in connection with two of seven killings and 13 of 37 shootings over more than year that police think may be linked .
 mayor jason_west officiates at 25 same-sex weddings in new_paltz , ny , infuriating establishment politicians and garnering a few threatening phone messages . has history of activism . his election owed a good deal to voters attending local campus of state_university_of_new_york . 75 percent of new_paltz 's 6,034 residents are under 35 . his detractors say west , 26 , is inexperienced and too interested in publicity .
 stocks tumble in their steepest slide since july . dollar weakens somewhat further against euro and british pound and price of crude oil bounces back up over $ 60 per barrel , adding concerns for investors . standard & poor 's 500-stock index falls 1.36 percent , to 1,381.90 . dow jones industrial average drops 1.29 percent , to 12,121.71 . nasdaq composite index falls 2.21 percent , closing at 2,405.92 . russell 2000 index loses 2.55 percent , ending at 772.10 . dollar continues decline against euro , as concerns by some that us economy might falter while economies in europe grow stronger pushes up euro to $ 1.3128 from $ 1.3079 .
 universal studios , adjusting to scrutiny of its new corporate parent , general_electric , cancels american gangster , movie that would have reunited training day director antoine_fuqua with oscar winning stars denzel washington and benicio del toro . cites costs , which have climbed over $ 100 million , and disarray of production . cancellation means universal will have to absorb $ 30 million loss .
 deputy defense sec paul_wolfowitz visits mass gravesite in hilla , one of 62 such sites that american and allied investigators have discovered in southern iraq . about 3,000 bodies have been unearthed , but townspeople say thousands more probably decomposed in shallow water table over last decade . wolfowitz promises group of local iraqis that occupying forces will lend whatever aid is ncessary to track down killers , but iraqis say americans have already squandered opportunities to capture suspected executioners and want them to do more .
 sub-saharan africa 's 45 countries find themselves with embarrassment of eager schoolchildren after two decades of sluggish growth in enrollment rates . crusade is under way in mali , one of world 's poorest nations , to get children into classrooms . mali more than doubled its spending per child between 1994 and 2004 to educate youngsters aged 6 through 14 , and in each of past five years , it has averaged 667 newly built first - through sixth-grade classrooms and 1,962 freshly hired first - through ninth-grade teachers . mali 's parents are creating their own school system side by side with official one . so-called community schools have grown faster than public schools .
 pres bush raises $ 5.3 million for his re-election drive , one-day record , at events in chicago and cincinnati . raised over $ 50 million in quarter ended sept 30 . howard_dean , apparently best-financed democrat , raised $ 14.7 million . experts say each democratic candidate will need to raise about $ 20 million by end of year to remain competititve .
 venezuela 's arms spending has climbed to more than $ 4 billion in past two years , highest in latin_america . officials contend they must strengthen country 's defenses against potential military aggression from united_states . have created large civilian reserve force and given military assistance to regional allies like bolivia . bush administration warns venezuela is destabilizing region .
 laura_miller article on release of 2005 short list of contenders for national book award for fiction , controversial this year because of obscurity of nominees . contenders are joan_silber for ideas of heaven , lily tuck for the news from paraguay , kate_walbert for our kind , christine_schutt for florida , and sarah_shun-lien_bynum for madeleine is sleeping .
 new_york_city police department transfers asst chief thomas_p_purtell_of_emergency_service unit in response to death of alberta spruill during mistaken raid in harlem . purtell will swap jobs with asst chief charles_kammerdener of housing_bureau . councilman peter_f_vallone jr and borough pres c virginia fields will hold separate meetings to review procedures police use to obtain search warrants , and police use of concussion grenades .
 orlando , fla , mayor buddy_dyer turns himself in to face charge of paying someone to collect absentee ballots before his election last year . gov jeb bush suspends dyer , as required by florida law . grand jury indicts dyer , his campaign manager patricia_beatty_phillips , consultant ezzie thomas and judge_alan_apte , who is charged with illegally paying thomas to collect absentee ballots before his own 2002 campaign .
 procter_&_gamble , nation 's largest advertiser , is moving ahead with plans made year ago to give far higher priority to advertising aimed at black consumers through innovative , multimillion-dollar agreement with leading urban radio personality tom_joyner 's company reach media . agreement goes beyond traditional elements like running commercials during tom_joyner morning show , program that is syndicated nationally to radio stations in 115 markets and heard estimated audience of eight million . there will be sponsorship and promotional alliances with joyner , on and off air , for 15 biggest procter_brands . ad campaign was developed by carol_h_williams advertising and burrell .
 six american and four british soldiers are killed in separate attacks around iraq , while american helicopter crashes south of baghdad , wounding four soldiers . american military reports that at least 9 other helicopters , including two operated by private security companies , have crashed in iraq since jan 20 , several brought down by insurgents . other violence around iraq includes car bomber in baghdad killing one civilian and wounding three .
 steve_largent , former seattle seakhawks wide receiver and republican congressman from oklahoma from 1994 to 2001 , begins new career as chief executive of cellular_telecommunications_and_internet_association , telecommunications industry 's main lobbying group . opposes increased government regulation of cellphone industry , whether federal or state . argues that wireless service is not sufficiently developed to provide 911 service and that industry can eventually serve low-income population less expensively without government intervention .
 bethany_mclean and peter_elkind op-ed article questions why government is prosecuting martha_stewart in imclone case but has yet to bring case against former enron chairman kenneth lay . notes enron fraud and collapse cost investors $ 70 billion , while stewart is charged with crime that saved her about $ 50,000 . holds lay used securities law loophole to surreptiously sell some $ 80 million of enron stock , while urging enron employees to continue buying shares .
 calisto_tanzi , founder and former chairman of parmalat , tells italian investigators that he was well aware of a hole of 8 billion euros -lrb- $ 10 billion -rrb- in company 's accounts and that he informed his successor , enrico_bondi , turnaround specialist who has been appointed bankruptcy administrator . blames losses at parmalat 's vast south american operation for financial schemes that ultimately brought down company . judge guido salvini expresses skepticism about tanzi 's admissions and says they figured in his decision to refuse request by tanzi 's lawyers that he be granted house arrest . charges spelled out in original warrant for tanzi 's arrest portray him as pivotal figure in false accounting and fraud going back almost 15 years .
 chandigarh , small city in northern india , hopes to become technology hub . it offers even lower labor costs than india 's ` first tier ' technology hubs like bangalore and bombay . city 's new director of information technology says he expects five new call centers to open soon , on top of three that started up in last_18_months . says 5,000 new jobs will be created . for now , chandigarh has only 2,000 jobs in call centers , and average call-center worker stays in job for only four months . work involves grueling hours and can be mind-numbing .
 russian prosecutors expand charges against major yukos shareholder platon_lebedev day after leonid nevzlin and other major shareholders offer to give up their stake in oil company in exchange for release of lebedev , billionaire mikhail_khodorkovsky and aleksei_pichugin . three are awaiting trial on charges including fraud and embezzlement . authorities also seek interpol warrant for nevzlin , who lives in israel .
 new_york_city_economic_development_corp earmarks $ 6.2 million towards construction of $ 22 million , 299-seat theater designed by architects frank_gehry and hugh_hardy in brooklyn . multipurpose experimental space , to be built on city-owned parking lot adjacent to brooklyn_academy_of_music , will serve as first permanent home of theater for a new audience .
 ethan_bronner editorial observer on well-groomed , cosmopolitan , militarily weak europe of 21st century confronting americans who look on them as craven appeasers . notes odd reversal of roles from few generations ago when americans were innocents who came to europe for firsthand look at power . points out that aversion to war is what defines not donald_rumsfeld 's ` old europe ' but new one in which disagreements are settled over dinners of snails and ducks .
 norman_mailer is about to announce sale of his archives to harry ransom humanities research center at university_of_texas in austin for $ 2.5 million . archives , stored in nearly 500 boxes weighing more than 20,000 pounds , includes notebooks , family photos , memorabilia and ephemera dating back to his childhood . mailer , in e-mail , comments on what it feels like to be relinquishing his work and reasons collection is going to texas .
 sen john_kerry , who sprinted from political near-death to democratic party 's all-but-official presidential nominee in six weeks since his upset win in iowa caucuses , faces grueling eight-month race against pres bush , who has all powers of incumbency at his command . bush is set to begin spending first of tens of millions of dollars on campaign advertising aimed at shaping race and defining kerry as quickly and negatively as possible . kerry has proved himself in past battles and says he is ready for fray . seemed easily rankled by recent mild attacks by sen john_edwards .
 firefighter thomas_lennon is suspended after officials say he was under influence of cocaine when he drove one fire truck into another at bronx intersection on feb_21 , causing multivehicle accident that injured at least nine firefighters and two other people . 12 members of fire dept have been dismissed over past two years after testing positive for drugs or alcohol . department will introduce random testing for substance abuse , but denies it has problem .
 housing and urban_development_department is proposing rule aimed at giving consumers better estimates of total cost of home loan , but mortgage finance industry and even consumer advocates have expressed concern measure is being rushed . department submitted what it calls final version last month to office of management and budget . estimates new rule would save home buyers $ 700 each on their loans , or $ 8 billion per year . mortgage bankers association vice president stephen_o'connor and national_association_of_mortgage_brokers president a w pickel_iii comment .
 nielsen_media_research , which faces criticism on plan to adopt electronic devices known as people meters to measure television ratings in new_york_city , offers compromise under which it would continue to operate current system for next three months , proceed with adoption of local people meters and allow stations and advertising agencies to use new_york data generated by either system . organization called do n't count us out coalition denounces nielsen 's plans in television commercials , contending new rating system may severely undercount black and hispanic viewers .
 article on upscale consignment , resale and otherwise ` gently ' used shops that have gone mainstream . national assn of resale and thrift stores says number of its stores has increased to 25,000 from 20,000 five_years_ago . census bureau reported used-merchandise stores reported $ 7.8 billion in sales in 2002 , up 29 percent from 1997 , compared with $ 3.1 trillion and 24 percent increase for overall retail sales .
 kevin_coyne jersey column on long-running dispute over whether to preserve modest concrete-block bathhouse at trenton_jewish_community_center in ewing township , nj , designed in 1954 by architect louis_i_kahn . community center is relocating to west_windsor nj . landmarked bathhouse needs $ 500,000 to $ 1 million worth of restoration , property is zoned for high-density housing and at least six private parties as well as mercer county have expressed interest in it .
 heavy campaign spending by so-called 527 committees raises concern about groups ' influence in elections across country . bill sponsored by sen_john_mccain and others would cap soft-money contributions . diverse supporters include sens_trent_lott and charles_schumer and pres bush . mccain warns current loophole allows wealthy partisans to ` dive-bomb ' into state campaign , as happened to republican_pete_coors in colorado . herbert and marion_sandler , democratic donors from california , funded citizens for a strong senate , which ran anti-coor ads in senate campaign .
 images out of north_korea after train explosion in ryongchon are reminder of price of economic collapse . after almost six decades of communist rule by kim family , north_korea can boast industrial equipment with value of $ 2 billion while south_korea 's industrial equipment has value of $ 489 billion . north korean images are vivid reminders of high economic price of east german-style collapse . south_korea 's bill to rebuild north_korea in first_decade of unification could be around $ 600 billion .
 new_york_yankees pitcher roger_clemens will have extra day off before next scheduled start , hoping to recover from upper respiratory infection that influenced manager joe_torre to remove him from game against chicago cubs after only 84 pitches . clemens , who was seeking 300th career victory , was hurling shutout when he gave way to relief pitcher in seventh inning .
 muslim converts in spain number in tens of thousands . in granada , last bastion of islam in country before 15th-century emir relinquished city , new mosque has been built , first in more than 500 years . movement in spain has its roots in hippies who pursued spiritual quests to morocco when it was counterculturalist mecca .
 us spy satellites are focused on north_korea and iran , both of which have seen america 's preoccupation with iraq as opportunity to surge forward with their nuclear programs . cia says north_korea may conduct its first nuclear test before us presidential election . america 's bargaining options are almost as limited as its military options . pres bush says he is dedicated to disarming both countries through diplomacy . sen john_kerry says bush allowed dangers to mount on his presidential watch by focusing on saddam_hussein .
 team of federal prosecutors led by us atty patrick_j_fitzgerald interviews pres bush in oval office as part of their investigation into whether administration officials illegally disclosed identity of undercover cia officer valerie_plame to journalist_robert_d_novak . bush is not under oath and is accompanied by lawyer james e sharp . plame is married to joseph_c_wilson iv , former diplomat who played role in disclosing that bush was relying on discredited intelligence when he asserted in 2003 state of the union address that iraq had tried to acquire uranium from niger .
 new intelligence estimates that north_korea may have produced one or two nuclear weapons in recent months , perhaps more , immerse bush administration in another internal debate about quality of intelligence about illegal weapons . as pres bush readies for trip to asia , some of his advisers say north_korea has , as it claims , turned 8,000 nuclear fuel rods into enough weapons-grade plutonium for several warheads . others say there is stil no proof , and plenty of incentive for north_koreans to bluff .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on haunting suffering of sick and elderly people who died in new_orleans hospital and st_bernard_parish_nursing home during hurricane flooding . suggests pres bush may finally have reached patch of reality beyond spin , his own incuriosity and deadly mixture of arrogance and incompetence . cites newsweek report that reality of katrina did not sink in for bush until days late , and aides had to make him watch newscasts and cut short vacation .
 jury forewoman in crown heights murder retrial says jury cleared lemrick_nelson jr of killing yankel_rosenbaum during race riots in 1991 because it knew of rosenbaum family 's negligence lawsuit against hospital for alleged wrongful death , and conceded that two parties can not both be responsible for one death . says that nelson was guilty of violating rosenbaum 's civil rights not by killing him but by following rioting crowd in pursuing rosenbaum , who was jewish .
 article on odd match-up of guests at benefit performance of tim_robbins ' political satire , embedded , at public theater , co-hosted by sarah_murdoch , who is on theater 's board . murdoch 's husband , new_york post publisher lachlan_murdoch , who has contributed to pres george_bush 's re-election campaign , last year criticized robbins and partner , susan_sarandon , for opposing invasion of iraq .
 south american leaders gather in rio de janerio for discussion of whether mercosur trade group should continue to emphasize economic integration , as brazil and argentina prefer , or transform itself into political alliance with ` anti-imperialist ' tint , as urged by pres hugo_chavez of venezuela . four of group 's original members -- brazil , argentina , paraguay and uruguay -- privately express concern about venezuela 's ability to adhere in future to group 's requirements that members follow democratic practices .
 dale_g_caldwell , first black president elected by harrison , ny , - based eastern_section_of_united_states_tennis_association , faces suit challenging election by losing white candidate gerard_e_cuva and his allies . cuva holds that caldwell and his allies improperly influenced vote counting . some see suit as underscoring difficulties blacks still have in gaining prominent positions in tennis and rekindling memories of eastern_section 's history of exclusion . united_states_tennis_association says that diversity efforts have resulted in third of new players being black and latino .
 france wins partial victory for its strategy of defending its national industrial champions , clearing last hurdle to deal with european_union that will allow it to bail out alstom . french government agrees to form partnerships of alstom and other businesses within four year , major concession extracted by european_commission 's competition chief mario_monti . agreement is reached in telephone conversation between monti and new french finance min nicolas_sarkozy .
 verizon will now require second person to double-check any entry of data that could affect new_york_city 911 emergency telephone system . plans to review procedures of process that led to failure of system for about two hours on march 26 . people making emergency calls in brooklyn , staten_island and queens received busy signals after engineer inadvertantly included numbers carrying 911 calls into changes he was making for bank . police and fire departments will also modify their procedures during failures of system .
 nbc_universal_television_group president randy_falco is in talks to leave his position as no 2 executive at television group to take senior operating role at aol . it is unclear whether falco will hold title of president or chief executive at aol , and what position aol chairman-chief executive jonathan_f_miller would maintain after move .
 dr carol_clericuzio , pediatric clinical geneticist at university_of_new_mexico , is studying five separate known cases of yet unnamed genetic disorder possibly linked to spanish settlers migrating to area 400 years ago . disease is believed to be founder effect and to have been silently carried for generations . only nicole_armijo , age 7 , is alive , other four children having died before they were three years old . clericuzio hopes to identify gene that causes disorder . symptoms include dwarfism , small kidneys and recessed eyes .
 helene_cooper , in editorial observer column , holds that former liberian pres charles_taylor has finally been captured and will be tried as war criminal . notes that her sister janice , husband and their 1-year-old son were kidnapped by soldiers in taylor 's rag-tag army in 1990 and released next day . says they were luckier than so many other liberians who were victimized by taylor and his soldiers .
 five letters comment on july 26 article and july 27 editorial on senate approving bill to make it federal crime to help girls under 18 escape parental notification laws in their states by going to other states to obtain abortion . edmund demarche supports bill . prof carol_f_roye , anna_bialek , susan_stern and jason_gerber oppose bill .
 olympic notebook . weight lifters wafa ammouri -lrb- morocco -rrb- , zoltan_kecskes -lrb- hungary -rrb- , viktor chislean -lrb- moldova -rrb- , pratima_kumari na -lrb- india -rrb- and sule sahbaz -lrb- turkey -rrb- are expelled from 2004 games for failing drug tests . cost of 2004 olympics is rising and is expected to top $ 8.5 billion .
 peace effort between india and pakistan is jeopardized by surging violence in disputed territory of kashmir , where more than 300 people have been killed in last_month . india accuses pakistan of covertly backing insurgency against indian-held part of kashmir . pakistan denies charge and calls insurgency indigenous freedom struggle . rancor is taking toll on peace effort .
 pres bush announces 10-year , $ 1 billion commitment in taxpayer money to enhance national parks and challenges private sector to raise additional $ 1 billion for park enhancement , which government would match dollar for dollar for maximum $ 3 billion at end of 10 years . initiative surprises some of bush 's critics in environmental movement . comes at urging of dirk_kempthorne , his new secretary of interior .
 illumina to acquire solexa , developer of dna sequencing machines , for $ 600 million in stock . acquisition will put under one roof most of main tools used for genetic studies . solexa shares soar $ 2.86 , or 29 percent , to $ 12.56 . illumina 's shares drop $ 5.14 , or 12 percent , to $ 38.91 , but price is still about 140 percent higher than it was year ago .
 team of geneticists says it has illuminated many aspects of how modern humans migrated from africa by studying dna of ancient orang asli people of malaysia . study , published in journal science , calculates that emigration from africa occurred 65,000 years ago , pushed along coasts of india and southeast_asia and reached australia by 50,000 years ago , date of earliest known archaeological site there . says orang asli people studied are probably descended from this first migration , because they have several ancient mitochondrial -lrb- inherited solely through female line -rrb- lineages that are found nowhere else .
 federal suits seek rewards of $ 6 million for tugboat company henry_marine and $ 2 million for tugboat mate robert g seckers for coming to aid of staten_island ferry during 2003 fatal crash in new_york_city . money is sought under ancient tradition called ` pure marine salvage , ' in which boats that come to aid of other boats in trouble are entitled to reward .
 connecticut general assembly restores operating funds and appropriates $ 3 million for deferred maintenance and renovations so that new-gate prison and copper mine in east_granby , henry_whitfield_house in guilford , prudence crandall museum in canterbury and sloane-stanley museum in kent , closed by state since 2002 budget crisis , can reopen in june .
 article on proliferation of clubs , thanks in large part to internet , for owners of less than famous cars . owners of king_midget , built from 1946 through 1969 , are gathering in norwalk , ohio this summer , owners of amphibious amphicar will meet at national swim-in in celina , ohio , and ford_pinto_owners_club will hold its first national meeting in pigeon forge , tenn .
 michael_g_cherkasky , new chief of marsh_&_mclennan , used to be prosecutor in district attorney 's office in manhattan , at one time supervising eliot_spitzer , who is now new_york attorney general . says his relationship with spitzer has always been good one , but plays down his good relations with spitzer , even though he is now leader of firm that has been charged by spitzer 's office with bid rigging and taking kickbacks from insurance companies .
 many experts say it is far too early to calculate overall economic effect of blackout on new_york_city . most businesses suffered , but some , including pay phone operators and street vendors gained . consolidated edison and city face increased overtime expenses , but that spending may boost area 's economy . city council finance director larian angelo estimates blackout will cost city $ 30 to $ 40 million in lost tax revenue and cost residents total of $ 500 million to $ 750 million in personal income . economists are fairly sanguine about overal economic effects .
 venezuela pres hugo_chavez is emerging as this generation 's fidel_castro , arousing roaring crowds throughout latin_america with his denunciations of united_states and american imperialism . chavez , like castro , is charismatic figure and self-styled revolutionary who bearhugs his counterparts on state visits , inspires populist left-wing movements and draws out fervent well-wishers from havana to buenos_aires . has one great advantage that castro never had -- richest oil reserves outside middle_east , which is providing cash that he is using to weave ever closer diplomatic and commercial ties with latin american leaders .
 none of 102 previous meetings between ohio_state and michigan football teams have held as much importance as coming game , with ohio_state ranked no 1 and michigan no 2 for first time in series history . both have 11-0 records , and winner is assured spot in bowl championship series national title game . anticipation for game is so high that it halts ballot counting in ohio 's 15th congressional district , where republican incumbent , deborah_pryce , leads her democratic challenger , mary_jo_kilroy , by over 3,000 votes . death before game of michigan 's renowned former coach , bo_schembechler , shocks college football .
 laurel graeber family fare column on atlantic theater co production of judith_viorst and shelly_markham_musical_alexander and the terrible , horrible , no good , very bad day , museum of jewish_heritage presentation of victor_borge 's the legend and teatro sea production by federico_garcia_lorca 's play the billy-club puppets at los_kabayitos puppet and children 's theater .
 robert_b_eberle , operator of activist republican web site gopusa.com , says he has known for two years that his white_house correspondent went by two identities , jeff_gannon and his real name james_d_guckert , but denies that guckert was bush administration plant or was given preferential treatment as republican partisan to ask soft questions at white_house press briefings . guckert told eberle he did not like sound of his real name but had to disclose it to gain white_house accreditation .
 lily tuck , who won 2004 national book award in united_states for her book the news from paraguay , visits paraguay for first time and finds herself dragged into country 's often bitter debate about national identity and honor . her book focuses on love affair between marshal francisco_solano_lopez , country 's strongman in mid-19th_century , and his irish mistress . some see book as insult to paraguay 's image and history .
 us army col patrick_reinert , rejecting defense argument about lack of witnesses , recommends that sergeant hasan akbar , accused of attacking sleeping officers on march 23 at camp in kuwait , be tried for murder in court-martial . akbar , 32 , is accused of rolling three grenades into three tents and shooting fleeing officers . two officers were killed and 14 others wounded . division commander major gen david_petraeus has until end of july to decide whether court-martial will be held .
 carlos_ferreira , who coached manny_ramirez in little league in washington heights section of manhattan and has counseled him ever since , is close to ramirez again as boston_battles_st_louis_cardinals in world series . ramirez 's wife , juliana , whom ramirez married only after ferreira told him , ` she 's the one , ` says ferreira loves manny like a son .
 st paul_companies_acquires_travelers_property_casualty_corp in $ 16 billion stock swap . combination will result in giant company called st_paul_travelers_companies , which will rank second in commercial insurance to american_international_group and will be among top companies in home and auto insurance . st paul 's chief executive jay_s_fishman and travelers ' chief executive robert i lipp comment .
 seaford , del , has been forced to reinvent itself since dupont_nylon_factory , which is based in wilmington , cut number of workers from peak of 4,600 in 1970 's to 650 today . city of 6,700 has developed municipal industrial park and nearby business complex . 60,000-square - foot building in industrial park that was constructed by city and state about three years ago in hopes of attracting new employer is vacant . city is making it priority to get building occupied within year .
 china criticizes new joint security statement in which united_states and japan declare peaceful taiwan strait as among their ` common strategic objectives ' . accuses two countries of meddling in its internal affairs . china considers taiwan a breakaway province and is acutely sensitive to what it regards as outside interference . by contrast , taiwan 's foreign minister cautiously welcomes statement . american and taiwanese officials say mentioning taiwan by name is shift for japan , which has in past been leery of publicly inserting itself into taiwan issue .
 matt_richtel column on troubles between invesco and its venture capital subsidiary invesco private capital . parag saxena will soon step down from invesco private capital , fourth senior manager to do so in three months . paul_kedrosky , executive director of william_j_von_liebig_center at university_of_california , which is devoted to study of venture capital sector , says upheaval at invesco is timely .
 frankfurt ballet , founded by american_choreographer_william_forsythe in 1984 , holds its final performance in paris . forsythe , 55-year-old new yorker , concluded that he did not want to compromise his artistic freedom when frankfurt city government signaled plans to cut company 's $ 6 million annual subsidy . new forsythe company , based in frankfurt and dresden and subsidized by hesse_and_saxony_state governments , should be born in january .
 editorial urges congress to undertake prompt , thorough and fair investigation of intelligence used by bush administration to take america into war with iraq and its failure to anticipate insurgency and other postwar nightmares . says defense_sec_donald_rumsfeld offered profoundly twisted version of administration 's claims about iraq 's weapons of mass destruction in response to question from cia analyst ray_mcgovern at recent public event in atlanta .
 centers for disease control officials approve fifth flu vaccine and predict us will have abundant supplies this season for first time in four years . graph . four manufacturers will make up to 115 million doses , up from two companies making 61 million doses two years ago . fda is also inspecting plants ever year and accelerating approval of new vaccines , such as glaxosmith_kline 's flulaval .
 french government , unable to quell nearly two weeks of civil unrest across country , declares state of emergency for 12 days , authorizing curfews in suburbs where bands of youths continue to burn cars and battle police . invokes law dating to colonial era in algeria to give expanded authority to local officials . prime min dominique_de_villepin , speaking in parliament , also outlines economic and social measures to address discrimination and chronic unemployment that breed resentment in grim housing projects populated by west_africans and north_africans . violence rages in toulouse with fewer outbreaks elsewhere .
 article on joe_bango jr , of bethany , conn , electrical engineer and inventor who is working on myriad contraptions and inventions . bango , president of connecticut_analytical_corp , and his partner , dr john_fenn , have been chosen by nasa for $ 600,000 grant to work with jet propulsion laboratory to design new fuel delivery system for satellites that will be used to test albert_einstein 's theory of relativity in space .
 development of former harlem_psychiatric_center in wingdale , ny , remains subject of dispute between town officials and benjamin companies , developer , four years after company bought 850-acre property . town officials , who redid zoning in 1990s to encourage higher-density , mixed-use development and protect open space , believe developer 's plan would encourage sprawl . company says town board will not recognize hard economic facts . long struggle illustrates difficulties in carrying out smart growth at time when region 's population is expected to grow by three to four million over next 25 years .
 david w dunlap column on proposal to take down franklin d roosevelt drive in lower manhattan in order to give pedestrians better access to east_river . proposal is before city 's newly designated planning consultants for east_river waterfront in lower manhattan : richard_rogers partnership of london and shop / sharples_holden_pasquarelli .
 repr mike_ferguson of new jersey 's seventh congressional district has become prime target in democratic effort to retake control of congress . democratic congressional campaign committee spokeswoman kate_bedingfield says voters are looking for change and hope to capitalize on growing anxiety over war in iraq . ferguson , who supported war and whose challenger is popular assemblywoman linda_stender , comments on race .
 bidding for entertainment assets of vivendi_universal narrows to two companies when vivendi 's board , after meeting in paris , declares that it will continue talks with general_electric 's nbc division and investor group led by previous owner edgar_bronfman jr , whose family controlled universal entertainment empire . nbc is offering partnership in combined nbc-universal entertainment conglomerate , without giving vivendi much cash . bronfman 's group would buy majority stake in vivendi 's entertainment assets , for which company is said to be seeking about $ 14 billion .
 prosecutors in milan make second attempt to bring to trial 29 people and 3 institutions , including bank_of_america , that they say played role in collapse of parmalat . people include company 's founder calisto_tanzi and three former chief financial officers . also on list are two of tanzi 's children and his brother , all of whom held managerial positions in company or were on board .
 coca-cola co resumes advertising for diet coke with energetic , playfully sexy campaign that seeks to associate brand with youthful joie de vivre . three commericals in campaign , by foote , cone_&_belding , reintepret diet coke theme ` do what feels good ' . spots , to run on tbs and tnt_cable_networks , are first work from foote , cone since being awarded domestic diet coke creative assignment , with billings estimated at $ 40 million , in late december .
 new_york_city council unanimously passes $ 47.2 billion budget that is expected to provide tax relief to many residents , including $ 400 rebate to most homeowners for each of next three years . will significantly expand school , library and subsidized day care programs . tax proposals await approval by state legislature , but albany leaders have pledged support . mayor michael_bloomberg praises budget .
 chicago-based cramer-krasselt is making long-awaited entry into new_york market . cramer-krasselt is arriving in new_york by expanding into public relations , to be followed by advertising , not usual sequence . agency is acquiring public relations firm nichol_&_co , which will become new_york outpost of ckpr , as cramer-krasselt public relations operation is known . cramer-krasselt president-chief executive peter_g_krivkovich and nichol chief executive betsy_nichol comment .
 hbo mini-series angels in america and hbo dominate 56th emmy awards . other hbo shows honored are the sopranos and sex and the city . sarah_jessica_parker wins for best actress in comedy series -lrb- sex and the city -rrb- , and kelsey_grammer wins his fourth award as best actor in comedy series -lrb- frasier -rrb- . david_hyde_pierce of frasier and cynthia_nixon of sex and the city win awards in comedy supporting roles . james_spader wins emmy for his role in the practice and allison_janney wins her fourth emmy for the west_wing . other winners noted .
 prosecutors at fairfax , virginia , preliminary hearing for lee_malvo , 17-year-old charged in sniper shootings that left 10 dead and 3 injured in washington , dc , area , reveal unusual amount of detail about their case in attempt to convince juvenile-court judge_charles_maxfield_that_malvo should be tried as adult on serial murder and terrorism charges that both carry death penalty .
 article on challenges facing hewlett_house , renovated 1720 's farmhouse in hewlett , li , that opened as breast cancer resource center a year ago . though envisioned as center for all long_island women , majority of 1,200 visitors so far have been from five towns and south shore areas . center has cut back operating hours and now welcomes all cancer patients .
 new jersey governor james_e_mcgreevey is campaigning aggressively against sprawl , which is likely to make new jersey first state to exhaust supply of usable land . two million acres of state 's five million are developed , and more than one million acres that are protected are soon to increase to two million , leaving just one million left to develop , and much of that is unsuitable for development .
 arrests of illegal immigrants trying to cross border peaked in 2000 at 1,676,438 arrests , then dropped to 931,557 arrests in 2003 . number rose again to 1,189,067 in 2005 . border patrol attributes increase to build up of security , but scholars suggest rebound after slump following sept 11 terrorist attacks . busiest stretch for crossings , 1,000 miles from san_diego to texas state line , has seen 6 percent increase since october .
 justice department is expected to indict richard_m_scrushy , ousted chief executive and founder of healthsouth_corp , on securities fraud and other charges . will be charged in connection with at least six years of reported on inflated profits by healthsouth . justice_department and securities_and_exchange_commission have accused scrushy of accounting fraud totaling $ 2.45 billion . scrushy 's lead lawyer donald_v_watkins says department has not informed he and his client of any indictment .
 soapbox essay by james_hughes , dean of rutgers_university 's edward_j_bloustein_school of planning and public policy , and prof joseph_j_seneca on new jersey 's need to transform its economy through wise public policy . holds that , while new jersey economy is doing well so far , nonchalant economic luck may have run its course . notes headquarters jobs in industries such as telecommunications and pharmaceuticals , once assumed to be new jersey 's birthright , are now firmly ensconced elsewhere . calls on acting gov richard_codey to focus major investments in stem-cell research .
 new_york_city fire officials say that firefighters are taking longer to respond to alarms in six neighborhoods where engine houses were closed this year because of budget cuts , but insist that impact on public safety is negligible . note from june to august , average response times grew by 20 to 53 seconds in affected communities .
 home depot_board dismisses chairman and chief executive robert_l_nardelli with $ 210 million exit package . surprise move comes only two weeks after board publicly supported him amid mounting questions about his compensation , business strategy and autocratic management style . nardelli reportedly challenged efforts of directors who sought in recent months to rein in his compensation under terms of his current contract . over six years as chief executive , he has taken home $ 64 million and was on track to earn hundreds of millions more . his fall is latest illustration of chief executives and boards coming under pressure when rich executive pay yields few apparent returns in form of rising stock price or improving profits . outsize executive pay has increasingly become flash point for investors , lawmakers and regulators . in nardelli 's case , critics are also incensed by his gold-plated exit .
 what passes for russia 's presidential contest continues as irina_m_khakamada and sergei_y_glazyev , leading opposition challengers , fail to win backing of own parties , which instead allow members to support pres vladimir_putin . march 14 vote is shaping up as repeat of parliamentary election , which putin 's united_russia_party swept after campaign that international observers say fell short of democratic standards .
 two blasts rip through entrances to suburban moscow rock festial , killing at least 16 people and wounding up to 60 more . russian government blames female suicide bombers . at least one reportedly is identified as chechen . blasts are first major terrorist act in moscow since last_oct . seem to fit growing pattern of suicide bombing attacks on both government and civilian targets in and around chechnya .
 article on unbroken : photography subjects speak out , show at denise_bibro fine art in manhattan . exhibition , which retired metropolitan_transportation_authority official george_carrano helped organize , was sponsored by bogota_school_for_disabled_and_nonprofit_london_organization_photovoice . includes photos by children from kabul , afghanistan , ho chi_minh_city , vietnam , refugee camps in nepal and school for mentally and physically disabled in bogota , colombia .
 article on long-running skirmish between atlantic striped bass surf casters and commercial fishermen off eastern long_island . while new_york 's commercial fisherman sold more than half million pounds of striped bass last year , state 's recreational fishermen landed more than four million pounds of stripers . recreational anglers are limited to one bass per day while commercial fishermen have same size limit -- 28 inches -- and allotment of 151 fish per fisherman per season .
 relatively small crowds of demonstrators mobilize in new_york , san_francisco and other cities across nation to protest war in iraq and demand removal of allied forces . thousands join similar protests in european cities , two years after american-led invasion . protests on both sides of atlantic are passionate but largely peaceful , though three dozen people are arrested in nyc . photos .
 former amb_joseph_c_wilson iv says in new book that he believes white_house official behind disclosure of his wife 's identity as cia officer is ` quite possibly ' i lewis_libby , vice pres cheney 's chief of staff . valerie_plame 's name was disclosed by columnist robert_novak after wilson criticized pres bush 's use of discredited report that iraq tried to buy uranium from niger . libby photo .
 cablevision offers $ 600,000 in three lump-sum payments to metropolitian_transportation_authority for rights to build residential complex over railyards in manhattan . is willing to cover mta 's costs related to operating railyard under platform . bloomberg_administration wants to build football stadium on site . stadium advocates say that cablevision 's offer is sham and that it undermines city 's effort to expand jacob k javits convention center . stadium opponents want mta to open up bidding to get as much money for site as possible .
 consolidated edison says july blackout in queens was beyond its control . says its actions prevented blackout from reaching 360,000 people more than 100,000 it affected . defends its equipment and infrastructure . notes that it needs to improve communications with its customers . says it has spent $ 58 million on improvements to system in long_island_city since blackout . local politicians criticize utility , saying it is evading responsibility .
 municipalities around slovenia are calling for removal of gypsies following incident in town of ambrus , where government officials negotiated removal of family of 31 gypsies , 14 of them children , as angry mob surrounded their property . slovenia , which joined european_union two years ago , prides itself as being free of ethnic tensions that dominate rest of former yugoslavia . but slovenia 's ombudsman for human rights sees deep-rooted prejudice that permeates slovenian society .
 newly released data from most recent iraqi census show unusually high portion of iraq 's men seemingly disappeared between 1987 and 1997 . data , which saddam hussein sealed as state secret , reveal previously unseen population scars left by years of war and repression . 1987 census takers recorded 106 men for every 100 women . decade later count was 99 men for every 100 women . lowest reported male-female ratios were clustered in southern third of country , where hussein persecuted shiite muslims after their uprising in 1991 . united_nations and united_states demographers caution against assuming great accuracy in counts .
 group of sought-after swing voters in iowa watches third presidential debate , in hopes of hearing something that would sway them . sen john_kerry may have lost votes when he invoked vice pres dick_cheney 's lesbian daughter as part of answer on same-sex marriage . three undecided voters think it unfair for him to single out one person . by debate 's end , one listener says he will vote for bush , one for kerry , and rest remain undecided .
 secretary gen kofi_annan tells security council that united_nations is planning to feed up to 10 million hungry iraqi civilians and care for at least 2.6 million refugees in wake of possible american-led war in iraq . appeals to 15 council ambassadors for $ 120 million to pay for urgent contingency planning .
 relatively obscure members of gulf_coast 's congressional delegation jump to capitol_hill 's a-list , swamped with invitations to meet with representatives of special interests looking for share of billions of dollars in hurricane relief funds . lawmakers like mississippi democrat gene_taylor_express amazement at newfound access to pres bush , republican leaders and national media . sens mary_landrieu and david_vitter shop list of needs that would cost $ 250 billion , on top of more than $ 60 billion already approved by congress .
 pres bush and russian pres vladimir v putin will meet at group of 8 meeting in germany at time when russian-american relations are at their lowest point since end of cold war , with fears that deteriorating relationship could rapidly worsen . putin and various bush administration officials have traded insults in recent months . critics of administration say decline in american-russian relations is byproduct of bush 's heavy emphasis on building personal relationship with putin , instead of strategic one . some experts say bush 's invitation to putin to visit bush family compound at kennebunkport , me , next month is meant to defuse any potential blowups during group of 8 meeting by enabling two leaders to put off their substantive talks until july .
 article on closing of dreesen 's excelsior market , which has been in business for 84 years in east_hampton , ny . owner rudy_desanti , 84 , and patrons comment on changes to east_hampton 's business district , which is transforming from mom-and-pop operations like dreesen 's to designer clothing shops , art galleries and real estate offices .
 pres bush approves plan for us to begin negotiations with north_korea in beijing after chinese government reportedly promises to act as full participant in talks rather than just convening them . north_korea has insisted on talking only with washington , reflection of its obsession with being treated as equal . bush has refused , insisting that north_korea nuclear program is major problem for all of northeast_asia and that north_korea might use one-on-one talks with us to split washington from its asian allies , japan and south_korea , who would pressure us to strike a deal on north_korea 's terms .
 wal-mart stores ' british unit asda narrowly averts costly strike after reaching agreement with gmb , union representing distribution center employees across britain . strike call threatened what is expected to be one of busiest shopping weekends of year , when england plays portugal in world cup and asda is expected to sell 10 million bottles of beer .
 reps john_conyers jr and jerrold_nadler , democrats , call for justice_department investigation into fbi 's questioning of would-be demonstrators about possible violence at political conventions , saying questioning may have violated first amendment . justice department and fbi officials say fbi is not monitoring groups or interviewing individuals unless it receives intelligence that such individuals or groups may be planning violent and disruptive criminal activity or have knowledge of such activity .
 suffolk_county and new_york commission of correction settle suit brought by county executive steve_levy over commission order that permanently closed two dormitories at county jail in yaphank in march after plumbing breakdown . settlement would allow suffolk to return at least some of 140 relocated prisoners to yaphank and cut costs while new temporary cells are built .
 chinese are having second thoughts about paying up to $ 60,000 to be smuggled to america . tales of hard , miserable existence deters many , especially in fujian_province . there are more options at home now with jobs available in small business , manufacturing or construction . while many people have at least one relative in us , golden venture , decrepit freighter packed with illegal immigrants that ran aground 10 years ago in new_york_city , killing 10 people , became shorthand for cruel world of exploitation .
 some economist and regional planners believe new_york_city economic recession has bottomed out , citing indications that labor and financial growth are brightening . others remain skeptical . regionally , planners report that new jersey may lead nation in recovery and note that hudson_valley area of new_york has had 11 months of year-over-year job gains .
 us , after raids in recent months that captured hundreds of insurgents in iraq , has significantly increased number of prisoners it says are foreign fighters . bush adminstration contends that such prisoners are not protected by geneva conventions . pentagon official says us is holding 325 foreign fighters in iraq . says number has increased by 140 since nov 7 , just before invasion of falluja . many of non-iraqis are suspected of links to al_qaeda or related terrorist networks supporting insurgency .
 article in series ruling party , on ascension of republicans in washington , focuses on republicans to watch in new congress . expects house republican leader tom delay to drive agenda for congress . says he has been invaluable in restoring to republicans full control of lawmaking machinery that was abruptly snatched away in mid-2001 with party switch of sen james m jeffords . discusses future roles of new senate majority leader bill_frist , assistant majority leader mitch_mcconnell , chairman of republican conference rick_santorum , chairman of republican policy committee jon_kyl , chairman of commerce_committee_john_mccain , chairman of finance_committee_charles_e_grassley , chairman of judiciary_committee_orrin_g_hatch_,_house majority whip roy_blunt and house chairman of ways_and_means_committee_bill_thomas .
 lawyer patrick_o'connell says jack_cutrone , long_island teenager involved in incident that left woman critically injured after 20-pound turkey was thrown through her windshield , has told police that ryan_cushing tossed turkey out of moving car after being warned not to do it . o'connell represents steven_manzolina , one of six teenagers involved in incident . cushing is charged with assault and other offenses . other teenagers charged in case are cutrone , manzolina , rachel_macdonald , amanda_mcdonald and michael_hasbrouk .
 historical novels and first-time nominees dominate list of finalists for national book awards . fiction nominees include the march by e l doctorow , holy skirts by rene_steinke and europe central by william_t_vollmann . nonfiction finalists include the year of magical thinking by joan_didion and 102 minutes : the untold story of the fight to survive inside the twin towers by jim_dwyer and kevin_flynn .
 intel 's first-quarter profit rose 19 percent partly as result of one-time tax benefit and company 's move to more efficient production process , while sales fell slightly . profit was $ 1.61 billion compared with $ 1.36 billion year earlier . sales declined 1 percent , to $ 8.85 billion , from $ 8.94 billion . chief financial officer andy d bryant comments .
 george_vecsey sports of the times_column discusses backlash against boston_red_sox manager grady little after loss to new_york_yankees in game 7 of american league championship series . notes that little is being criticized for allowing pedro_martinez to continue pitching in eight inning during yankee rally despite fact that martinez seemed to be tiring and red sox bullpen had performed well in postseason .
 consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in january , adjusted for seasonal factors , after being flat in december . newly released minutes from federal_reserve 's policy meeting on feb 1 and 2 suggests that fed officials were slightly less worried about inflation than they had sounded in january . minutes suggest fed will continue to slowly raise short-term interest rates , but there were fewer hints about need to speed process of rate increases in response to inflationary pressures .
 elinor burkett article examines split between environmental community and residents of cape cod , mass , and surrounding islands over wind farm in nantucket sound . plan by cape_wind_associates would build nation 's first offshore wind farm at cost of $ 700 million and would provide cape codders with 75 percent of their electricity . residents are demanding that area be exempt from such projects , citing ` pristine ' beauty and status as national_treasure , while environmentalists argue that trade-offs are necessary to achieve affordable , clean energy .
 publicis groupe is bowing to rare display of public displeasure from client general_motors_corp , by taking unusual step of undoing recent hiring of kurt_ritter to head its saatchi and saatchi division . ritter joined publicis agency in may , after working more than 30 years for gm to oversee account of competing automaker toyota_motor at saatchi_&_saatchi . ritter is leaving agency , where he had been chief executive of office that handles american toyota account , to placate gm .
 thousands of bodies are being found every day in banda_aceh , indonesia , almost month after devastating tsunami . despite money and outside help , even most basic condition for return to normalcy is nowhere near . government says it intends to pick up all bodies by jan_26 , exactly one month after tsunami , but few in banda aceh think that is possible . official count of dead buried in aceh is 92,751 . search now is painstaking process of working house-to-house , digging through one heap of rubble to next . at least 10,000 more bodies are believed scattered under collapsed houses , mixed with millions of tons of mud and debris . in fact , no one knows how many bodies remain or even how many died .
 mayor michael r bloomberg outlines his latest plan to balance new_york_city budget , this time shifting focus away from city actions and placing his trust in albany and city 's labor unions to help close $ 3.4 billion gap . bloomberg is looking to albany for roughly $ 1.7 billion in budget relief .
 gretchen_morgenson column on role that ten outside directors at american_international_group , hand-picked by maurice_greenberg , may have played in his downfall after more than 40 years at company . describes connections between outside board and starr_foundation , nonprofit organization created by aig founder cornelius_vander_starr that maurice_greenberg controls .
 boeing_co is trying to make successful turnaround and regain dominance in commercial aviation over airbus , which has had string of financial and personal scandals involving top executives . company 's revenue has grown for second consecutive year , to $ 54.8 billion in 2005 . it has record number of orders for planes and huge gains in stock price . boeing is pinning its hopes on 787 , its first new commercial plane in decade , which is expected to go into service in 2008 .
 houston astros advance to national league championship series against st_louis_cardinals after beating atlanta_braves in game that lasts 5 hours and 50 minutes and 18 innings . astros ' chris_burke ends baseball 's longest postseason game with one-out home run in bottom of 18th on delivery by braves rookie pitcher joey_devine .
 bruce_jackson , who two years ago was found rummaging through neighbor 's trash , for first time publicly confronts his adoptive mother vanessa_jackson as she is about to be sentenced to 7 years in prison for starving him and his younger brothers tyrone , keith and michael . jackson and his brothers describe horror of their life in mrs_jackson 's collingswood , nj , home . case drew national attention to failures of new jersey 's child welfare system .
 conservationists and their allies will fan out through russian maritime territory during three days in february to conduct first census of siberian tigers in decade . biologists believe tiger population peaked at about 600 in 1990 , but census in 1995-96 showed decline to 450 . tigers and other wildlife were hurt by collapse of soviet controls on hunting and trade and rise in chinese demand for wildlife delicacies and traditional medicine that encourages poaching .
 article on switch by croton-on-hudson , ny , to wind-generated energy to supply some power to its municipal buildings . village , under resolution passed in march 2002 , is first municipality in new_york to use wind-generated energy . mayor robert_elliott says wind power , which is obtained from wind farm near syracuse , costs a few cents more per kilowatt hour but is clean and safe .
 bush administration and military officials are testifying before congress and blame for problems in iraq is being spread around . pentagon swipes at state_dept . pres bush blames iran . rep henry a waxman upbraids l paul_bremmer_iii , former civilian administrator in iraq . sen john_mccain chastises gen_george_w_casey_jr .
 european diplomats have been maneuvering in recent months to avert crises , cajole rogue leaders or urge reconciliation , from iran to syria to libya and cyprus . europeans are working in same direction , if not with same tactics as americans . european diplomacy often remains at odds with itself because france , germany and britain still conduct their own foreign policies .
 new_york_knicks_trade_latrell_sprewell to minnesota timberwolves and acquire philadelphia 76ers forward keith_van_horn in four-team deal . 76ers obtain glenn_robinson from atlanta_hawks and center marc_jackson from timberwolves . hawks receive guard terrell_brandon , who will likely bring salary cap relief for hawks because of his knee injury .
 profile of and interview with jonathan_ledbed , who was accused by securities_and_exchange_commission in september 2000 of running internet-based stock manipulation scheme known as pump and dump operation . ledbed , now 18 , admitted no wrongdoing , paid $ 285,000 fine , kept gain of about $ 500,000 and is running for town council in hometown of cedar_grove , nj . photo .
 one metro center , nearly completed office building in washington , dc 's east end , is being built above hecht 's department store . center is first foray into washington by new_york developer tishman speyer properties . center does not have roster of tenants , but tishman_speyer is confident it will get tenants . other developers say some companies may be hesitating because of property 's unusual features , including limited parking in building and fact that mass-market department store is underneath offices .
 garden guy inc , landscaping firm , prompted furor in houston , tex , by telling gay couple in e-mail message that it would not work for homosexuals . message made its way around internet , and company was bombarded with threats and hate mail . sabrina_farber , co-owner of company with her husband todd , says company has picked up $ 40,000 in new business in past two weeks , while losing only two clients worth about $ 500 each a year .
 riverkeeper organization is set to issue report warning that successful terrorist attack at indian point nuclear plant in buchanan , ny , could kill 44,000 people in a few days and 500,000 more from cancer over next decade and cost $ 2.1 trillion . entergy_corp , plant 's owner , and nuclear regulatory commission say scenario presented by riverkeeper would require improbable series of events . documentary based on report will be broadcast on hbo .
 new_york_city_united_way announces that internal investigation has determined that former leader ralph_dickerson jr took $ 227,000 of groups assets for personal use in 2002 and 2003 . dickerson was with organization for 33 years and has agreed to reimburse all funds taken . history of new_york_city_united way , including other wrongdoing , described .
 granada , nicaragua , is filled with signs of centuries of tradition . it was once bustling hub of central_america . businessman gabriel_pasos believes waterway to caribbean could again make granada bustling city it was in days of spanish empire . says his so-called ecocanal would revive natural waterway spanish empire pioneered 300 years ago .
 on stage and off column . speculation centers on whether adam_guettel 's light in the piazza , currently playing at goodman theater in chicago , will open on broadway next fall or stop at nonprofit theater first . three-theater coomplex is being built on 10th avenue between 52nd and 53rd streets for intar theater and ensemble studio theater as off broadway building boom continues on manhattan 's west side . league of american theaters and producers and international alliance of theatrical stage employees reach new three-year contract .
 debate is under way over future of mississippi river-gulf outlet , navigational shortcut between mississippi_river and gulf_of mexico , which has been blamed for much of new_orleans 's devastation in hurricane katrina , as well as for environmental damage . city residents and officials want canal shut down or at least bottled up , move that would cost thousands of jobs unless government spends $ 400 million to move nine major shipping-related businesses that currently depend on channel .
 third suicide bombing in week against bangladesh judiciary kills one person and wounds 30 in government office where lawyers meet in gazipur . two earlier bombings were aimed at courthouse and law office . total of 11 people are killed and 100 more wounded in week 's expansion of three-month-old campaign against judiciary in mostly muslim nation . militants are seeking to replace secular legal system with islamic law . violence has risen steadily in recent months . police suspect latest bombings were conducted by jamaat ul-mujahedeen bangladesh , outlawed islamist faction seeking to impose muslim law .
 study by university_of_texas_prof_paul a jargowsky shows poverty in us became far less concentrated in 1990 's as public housing projects were torn down and millions of poor people left urban slums for other neighborhoods . number of people living in high-poverty neighborhoods declined by 2.5 million , or 24 percent . details of study and census_bureau_data on which it was based discussed .
 world health organization lifts its advisory against travel to hong_kong and neighboring guangdong_province , china , once twin centers of sars outbreak . centers for disease control and prevention reinstates travel alert for toronto after canadian authorities report cluster of new possible sars cases . new cases involve health care workers , hospital patients and some family members . health officials order quarantine for hundreds of people who may have spent time at hospital this month before some of new suspected cases were discovered . hong_kong has brought down daily rate of new infections from as many as 80 to fewer than 5 for last_eight_days .
 ben s bernanke has won widespread praise since pres bush named him to succeed alan_greenspan as federal_reserve chairman , but he is an out-of-the-ordinary choice , having been virtually unknown outside of academia four years ago . emerged as front-runner in recent months , leaping ahead of veteran republicans who have advised bush for years and helped engineer his huge tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 . bush , in selecting bernanke , essentially chose candidate who would satisfy others -- investors on wall street and lawmakers in congress -- more than himself or his republican base .
 debate over end-of-life decisions moves into statehouses as result of terri_schiavo case in florida . alabama bill would bar removal of feeding tube without express written instructions from patient , michigan bill would bar adulterers from making such decisions and other proposals would make living wills more widely available . polls indicating broad public opposition to government involvement may be giving some politicians second thoughts , but but last-minute interventions in schiavo case by congress and florida gov jeb bush have changed rules of legislation intervention . all states already have laws allowing people to write advance directives .
 russia is taking bolder stance , seeking to reclaim its place as part of multipolar world . it has made clear that it plans to use what power it has and reject lectures from west . bush administration is debating what its russia policy should be . some policy advocates hope pres bush can dissuade russian pres vladimir_putin from authoritarianism and engage russia in several diplomatic areas . critics call for stronger criticism , even ostracism of russia . putin has shown he is willing to cooperate on some issues with bush , but he has made it clear russia will not be pushed .
 gambling industry analyst reports and government figures show that macao surpassed las_vegas_strip as world 's largest gambling center in 2006 . gambling revenue soared 22 percent to $ 6.95 billion in macao , which is only place in china where gambling is legal . it attracted more than 22 million visitors in 2006 . revenues for las_vegas are estimated at $ 6.5 billion for year .
 wendy moonan antiques column . sotheby 's france will auction nicole and john_dintenfass collection of african art to coincide with opening of musee_du_quai_branly in paris . cincinnati_museum_center will sell collection of rare books given to cincinnati historical society library by collector cornelius_j_hauck in 1966 at christie 's new_york .
 finger-pointing over fire at nightclub in west_warwick , ri , intensifies as authorities deepen their investigation and struggle with grim task of identifying the dead . jeff_derderian , one of club 's owners , insists he had no knowledge that band that was playing , great white , would use pyrotechnics that set club on fire . band insists it had permission for pyrotechnic display . only 15 of 96 people killed in fire have been identified . 80 of 187 people injured in fire remain in hospital , 25 of them in critical condition .
 french interior min dominique_de_villepin 's recent comment that france might need new prime minister , and that he is available , sets off conflict with prime min jean-pierre_raffarin . raffarin assures public there is no crisis in government , but battle has become nasty . duel between two men underscores how edgy political elite in france has become as poll after poll indicates that voters are poised to reject european_union_constitution when referendum takes place on may 29 . pres jacques_chirac has lobbied hard for its passage .
 european union 's trade commissioner , peter_mandelson , cautiously welcomes proposal rob_portman , us trade representative , to slash some agricultural subsidies by 60 percent over next five years in exchange for tariff reductions of 55 percent to 90 percent . says european_union is willing to go ` substantially beyond ' proposed american cuts , but declines to comment on whether europe could meet american demands on tariff reduction . farms groups in us say cuts in subsidies would cause some economic pain , particularly for crops like corn and soybeans . critics of portman 's plan say subsidy cuts would not address main long-term issue of declining commodity prices and unchecked tendencies by farmers to overproduce . portman photo .
 many immigrants in new_york_city complain of huge delays in their citizenship applications despite 2001 vow by pres george_w_bush to cut wait to six months . wait in new_york drops to 2.8 months from 18 months , but citizenship and immigration services officials admit they stopped counting thousands of backlogged cases that they define as being outside agency control . cases no longer counted are those delayed by unexplained lags in standard security clearances by federal_bureau_of_investigation .
 don_imus , one of most successful and influential pitchmen in history of radio , spends another day asking for forgiveness for racially disparaging on-air remark about rutgers women 's basketball team . team members offer to meet privately with him , but it remains uncertain whether imus can use team 's gesture to save his broadcasting career . staples withdraws as sponsor of msnbc_television simulcast of imus 's radio show on wfan-ny . procter_&_gamble withdraws all its advertising from msnbc 's daytime schedule . action underscores risks that go with rewards of sponsoring or appearing on show . rudolph_giuliani and sens_john_mccain , christopher_j_dodd and john_kerry_score_imus 's remark . mccain and giuliani say they would go on show again , but kerry and dodd sidestep question .
 smuggling goods to and from iran is thought to represent over half the economy in musandam_peninsula in northern oman . trade is illegal in iran , which closed its borders after 1979 revolution , but legal in oman , which means omani government collects taxes and grants de facto visas to iranians , as long as they stay in port and leave before nightfall . between 50 and 80 boats currently make crossing of strait of hormuz each day , but smugglers complain that their business is suffering since iran began signing deals with international companies .
 bush and kerry presidential campaigns engage in battle over broad range of issues , trading harsh criticism on topics including personal character , hollywood 's politics , abortion and indictment of enron_corp 's former chairman kenneth l lay . much of day 's maneuvering concerns john_kerry fund-raiser at radio_city_music_hall . bush campaign criticizes kerry day after $ 7.5 million fund-raiser at which array of stars harshly ridiculed pres bush .
 coalition of private citizens and local elected officials in new jersey plan to file lawsuit to block state 's use of nearly 8,000 electronic voting machines . over three million voters in 15 of new jersey 's 21 counties are scheduled to use machines , which have been dogged nationwide by concerns over their reliability and fairness .
 eleven letters on election_of_house of representatives controlled by democrats . emily rome , anne_bernays , ken_swensen , stephanie_nicholas_acquadro and reese lloyd voice satisfaction or jubilation at this rebuff to pres bush . geoffrey w bramhall tries to see good side from republican perspective . richard lenter attributes outcome to republican incompetence . alan h neff doubts if democrats can undo damage done by bush administration . bruce_feher suggests what republicans will have to do to regain power . gail_minthorn says democrats must act like employees of american people .
 pentagon records show douglas_j_feith , former top pentagon official involved in planning iraq war , was hired by defense_dept_graduate_school for military officers and diplomats , national_defense_university , with four-year contract that was to pay him $ 500,000 . contract was terminated month later in aug 2006 by ` mutual decision . ` hiring of feith had never been announced .
 german politician says general_motors ' opel division shifted some auto production from its plants in germany to factory in gliwice , poland , to reward polish government for its support of bush administration 's war in iraq . gm dismisses political motives , noting that poland 's far lower labor costs give it compelling economic incentive to move . gm has announced in last 11 days that it would cut up to 12,000 jobs in europe , majority in germany . gm has been criticized for making its decision without negotiations , which is against german custom .
 paul_von_zielbauer article on his canoe trip down hartford 's park_river , putrid waterway that is essentially a sewer channel traversing three miles of city underground . park river 's main branch , perhaps most abused urban waterway in connecticut , still connects hartford 's west side to connecticut_river , just as it did when dutch first arrived in 1614 , only now 30 to 50 feet below surface .
 sen hillary_rodham_clinton is mistress of ceremonies at annual jefferson-jackson fund-raising dinner in des_moines , iowa . record 7,500 tickets are sold , with state_party chairman gordon_fischer attributing event 's popularity this year to clinton , who introduces presidential hopefuls after giving speech . event raises $ 300,000 and brings national media attention with primary season just months away .
 federal prosecutors battle lawyers for new jersey legislature for access to budgetary records in their investigation of sen_wayne_r_bryant . are looking into whether bryant improperly steered millions of dollars in state grants to university_of_medicine and dentistry of new jersey in exchange for no-show job . christopher j christie , united_states attorney for new jersey , issues broad subpoena for records related to state grants that may pertain to conflicts of interests by lawmakers and state staffers .
 fifteen couples from northern israel whose weddings were canceled because of war leave bomb shelters to marry in group ceremony on campus of tel_aviv_university . mass wedding is one of many volunteer projects to help israel 's northern residents , who have been heavily affected by fighting with hezbollah_fighters in lebanon in past months .
 contrast between sen john_kerry 's military record as decorated vietnam war combat veteran and pres bush 's safer time in texas_national_guard has exploded into campaign issue in presidential race . democrats , who accuse bush of being ` awol ' from national_guard , are using issue to undermine his greatest electoral strength -- his record on national security after sept_11_, 2001 attacks . republicans are concerned enough about political impact of charges to weigh earlier start to bush 's official campaign .
 supporters of both sides of iraq war debate gather at weekly silent demonstration in lewes , delaware . protesters bring equal amounts of fervor and civility to busy corner in town of 3,000 . small and mostly rural towns are bearing disproportionate burden of war . about 50 percent of us military casualties in iraq have come from towns with fewer than 25,000 residents .
 nine letters respond to byron_calame oct 8 public editor column holding that times reporter linda_greenhouse violated times 's ethical guidelines when she stated personal political opinions at speaking engagement . barbara_walden , peter_steiner , robert_stein , carl_senna , patricia_pepper and prof nancy cott_express support for linda_greenhouse and journalists ' rights to free speech . steve_schwartz , tim_dineen and scott_macey say linda_greenhouse is politically biased .
 brian_stelter 's blog tvnewser.com is practically required reading for high powered and highly paid television executives who want inside scoop on industry . it provides quick snapshot of industry on any given day without stinging commentary . devotees include nbc_news 's brian_williams and cnn executive jonathan_klein . 21-year-old stelter is senior at towson_university in maryland majoring in mass communication . he chronicles gossipy new york-hollywood television industry in blog that he started in 2004 . has earned grudging respect of many of his readers , who email him hundreds of tips each day that often translate into scoops and is considered trustworthy by industry insiders .
 chicago heiress frances_glessner_lee , who died in 1962 , fashioned 19 dollhouse rooms in 1940 's as meticulous crime scenes to teach police art of observation and as outlet for her fascination with forensic science . lee called miniatures nutshell studies of unexplained death , set up workshop called nutshell laboratories and set up harvard_department in forensics . nutshells are now at maryland_state_medical_examiner 's office , where dr david_r_fowler says they are still taken as seriously as any other crime scene and have details unequaled by computer programs . corinne may botz 's photos of miniature crime scenes are subject of new book and exhibit at bellwether gallery in manhattan .
 atty gen alberto_gonzales 's account of his role in dismissal of united_states attorneys is disputed by his former chief of staff d kyle_sampson in testimony before senate_judiciary_committee . sampson claims he consulted regularly with gonzales about dismissals . says briefings about matter occurred repeatedly over two-year period , beginning in early 2005 when gonzales was still white_house counsel . sampson 's testimony is latest blow to gonzales , who is struggling to keep his job as lawmakers from both parties call for his resignation . pres bush continues to back him publicly . sampson 's testimony sheds no new light on why harriet_e_miers , former white_house counsel , first proposed dismissals after 2004 election . he offers little information clarifying whether karl rove played central role . photos . excerpts from remarks by gonzales and testimony from sampson .
 real estate brokers in new_orleans view housing market 's comeback as small miracle in city where 80 percent of homes were flooded by hurricane katrina . only bravest speculators are buying in most distressed communities , but november sales in west_bank area were up 99 percent in dollar terms over year earlier . buyers are signing long-term mortgages while many questions about rebuilding of new_orleans remain unresolved .
 new_york_city mayor michael_bloomberg announces partnership between city and snapple that will make it city 's official beverage . deal gives company exclusivity in city 's 1,200 public schools for $ 8 million per year for five years . snapple is also expected to pay city about $ 13 million annually , based on sales , and will spend about $ 12 million per year on advertising that promotes new_york_city . is developing four new juice drinks to comply with city 's recent ban of soda and candy from school vending machines .
 united states military officials say they have captured abid hamid mahmoud_al-tikriti , saddam_hussein 's closest confidante and fourth on list of 55 most-wanted members of his government . officials say little has been learned from mahmoud in early stages of his interrogation , but believe he almost certainly knows fate of hussein and has information about iraq 's weapons programs . in baghdad , angry demonstration by former iraqi_army officers demanding back wage payments turns violent , with two iraqis killed in confrontation with american troops . in separate incident , two american soldiers are shot and one of them killed in drive-by shooting in southern_baghdad . american troops near tikrit arrest about 50 members of hussein 's special security forces and special republican guard , seizing more than $ 8.5 million in cash and other valuables .
 south_dakota sun sets on 26-year political career of democratic sen tom_daschle , first senate leader of any party to be turned out of office in half century . republicans rejoice and dispirited democrats reel at historic loss to john_thune , popular former congressman and close ally of pres bush . daschle is calm and smiling as he voices respect for voters ' decision . photo . outcome removes one of washington 's most familiar democratic faces , soft-spoken minority leader vilified by republicans for obstructing their agenda . thune , who lost senate race two years ago , gets strong support from fiscal and christian conservatives in nation 's most expensive senate campaign .
 kim ronemus and husband michael have spent last_year fighting for approval to restore westport , conn , gas station that was built around 1910 . couple was backed by local historic preservationists who say westport is rapidly ` digesting itself ' at rate of some 100 tear-downs each year . kim ronemus says ultimate victory in long , very expensive battle is that their case has spurred zoning amendments that would make westport more amenable to historic preservation .
 yates_petroleum 's plan to drill for natural gas in desert grasslands of otero_mesa in new mexico , pristine area of grasslands and cattle ranches , is being challenged by gov bill_richardson . richardson , energy secretary in clinton administration and potential candidate for vice president on democratic ticket , says opposition to yates 's drilling projects forms cornerstone of energy proposals he is promoting as alternative to what he describes as bush administration 's ` drill at all costs ' policy .
 jennifer_medina column on tight primary race for fourth congressional district seat in connecticut , which is becoming referendum on war in iraq and pres bush . democrat diane_farrell is trying to topple republican incumbent christopher_shays . democratic primary victor_ned_lamont and sen joseph_lieberman are endorsing farrell while shays is backing lieberman , who shares his moderate views on some issues .
 william bosworth at bronx_data_center at lehman_college reports that 4,000 people left allegany_county in western_new_york for bronx between 1995 and 2000 , according to census data . efforts to account for shift center on movements of college students and prison inmates , but nothing seems to account for extraordinary figure .
 turkish troops cross iraqi border hours after government opens airspace to american military planes bound for iraq . move will likely anger bush administration officials and kurds of northern iraq . there is deep concern in turkey that kurds may use war to set up independent kurdistan , which turkish officials fear would inflame their own large kurdish minority . turkish foreign min abdullah gul says troops are there to prevent flight of refugees into turkey .
 new federal regulations permit winemakers to add up to 15 percent of another vintage to current year 's wine . since 1972 , only 5 percent was allowed . current regulations apply only to wines with state and county appellations and other wines must still follow 5 percent rule . most people in industry support new policy . say that it will allow wineries to handle ebb and flow of grape harvest and maintain more consistent product .
 leading senators from both parties meet with pres bush on supreme_court vacancy and offer some names . encourage bush to look beyond federal judiciary for , in arlen specter 's words , ` some diversity ' . breakfast meeting also includes republican leader bill_frist , democratic leader harry_reid , patrick_leahy , senior democrat on judiciary committee , as well as vice pres cheney and chief of staff andrew card . photo . bush gets more advice from his wife , laura , who tells nbc interviewer in south_africa she would like to see another woman succeed sandra day o'connor .
 gov george e pataki releases plan to comply with court order to improve new_york_city public schools . calls for $ 6.5 billion in additional spending on schools over next five years and requiring new_york_city to contribute additional $ 1.5 billion . city would receive $ 3.2 billion from state , increasing total to $ 4.7 billion for city 's schools . funds would come from federal , state and municipal sources , as well as proceeds from video slot machines . accuses assembly and speaker sheldon_silver of failing to negotiate in good faith .
 advertisers are buying more commercial time during super bowl than usual or initially intended . anheuser-busch , general_motors , pepsico and sony will account for 40 percent of ad spots being sold by abc . marketers , including reebok_international , are also running spots that go on for longer than traditional 30 seconds . 30-second spots during game are estimated to cost average of $ 2.1 million .
 martha_stewart living omnimedia exeucutive heidi_deluca testifies controversial stock sale underlying criminal charges against martha_stewart may have resulted from plan made weeks in advance rather than in response to tip from corporate insider . tells jurors that stewart 's broker peter_e_bacanovic mentioned in november 2001 that he would discuss with stewart whether to set fixed price of sale of stewart 's shares in imclone_systems . defense lawyers try to lay foundation for evidence they want to present outside presence of jury . stewart 's lawyer robert_g_morvillo says defendants should be acquitted because prosecution has failed to make its case .
 saturday 's train of floats and marching bands is joyous first step of this year 's mardi gras season in new_orleans_mardi gras is first since hurricane katrina devastated city . crowds were thinner than usual , as only 200,000 of 465,000 residents have returned . community struggling with doubt about propriety of celebration concluded that local economy desparately needed help and that cultural traditions should be embraced again .
 article in series on two freshmen members of congress , reps candice_miller and raul m grijalva , says they have both shed their initial tentativeness after nearly a year in office . they agree that most difficult aspect of serving in congress is sheer unpredictability . miller is republican from outside detroit , and grijalva is liberal democrat from tucson , and they typically find little else to agree on .
 pres bush addresses philippine congress , saying that iraq , like philippines , can be transformed into vibrant democracy and pledging to help in remaking of troubled and sometimes mutinous philippine military into force for fighting terrorism . says us liberated philippines from colonial rule in 1898 , using same verb he often uses to describe american action in iraq , but makes no reference to 48-year-old american occupation of philippines . meets with pres gloria_macapagal_arroyo and her cabinet and announces that two countries have formalized five-year plan to modernize and reform philippine military .
 article on work of a few homeowners in connecticut who are restoring old houses . history majors paul and donna_courchaine are restoring house in wethersfield built around 1637 with extensive termite damage . gloria_woerheide is restoring 19th-century_house in norwich whose attic was flooded . jay and cathy fields replaced furnace , well , septic system and roof in 1732 cape cod in harwinton and have done extensive renovations themselves , with help of part-time teenage handyman . architect jack_franzen and his wife , ann , are restoring and renovating 1820 house in fairfield .
 canadian national railway , which has transformed itself over last decade from lumbering government agency into envy of north american railroads , recently completed share buyback worth $ 655 million and gave notice of plans to raise up to $ 1 billion in debt . cash flow is at record levels , and share price has surged almost 50 percent this year . president-chief executive e hunter_harrison want to control broader range of transportation alternatives , through possible mergers with rail lines in us and alliances in trucking .
 article explores reasons why mci accepted $ 7.6 billion takeover bid from verizon_communications over offer from qwest_communications that was worth nearly 20 percent more . many industry analysts agree that board , trying to determine what deals would be worth year from now , when regulators are likely to sign off , concluded that verizon 's mix of stock and cash would be worth more than qwest 's and that verizon is less risky bet . suits filed by angry mci shareholders prompt re-examination of thorny questions of who employs company 's board and where directors ' loyalties should lie .
 more than 500,000 serbs mass in central_square in belgrade in public wake for former president slobodan_milosevic , representing either his final victory or one last embarrassment for serbia at his hands . many hope tribute will not mean return to nationalist policies that isolated and impoverished serbia in 1990 's . small counterrally tries to remind serbs of miseries milosevic inflicted on them and their neighbors .
 new_york state spends much more money on medicaid than other states do , large amounts of it given to hospitals based on formulas and political deals made decades ago . gov eliot spitzer hopes to tame system he sees as prolifigate and dysfunctional . blames hospital and nursing home industry and 1199 seiu united_healthcare workers east for rising medicaid costs . medicaid spending grew 40 percent in state from 2000 to 2005 , but enrollment rose faster , by 55 percent in same period , producing 9 percent drop in spending per patient .
 motorola 's fortunes have plunged along with price of its razr cellphone , whose price has declined from $ 500_two years ago to about $ 30 with two-year service contract . carl_icahn has bought 40 million shares on bet that he could push company to improve . motorola has failed to focus on consumer tastes in phones , which are more about looks than performance .
 rockrose_development_corp will begin construction of first housing complex on far west side of manhattan , direct result of rezoning of 310 acres in what has been officially renamed hudson yards district . rockrose will build two-tower residential complex on 10th avenue between 37th and 38th streets . half-dozen developers have already planned projects that will bring nearly 6,000 new apartments to area . city officials say plans for $ 2.1 billion extension of no 7 subway line to 11th avenue and 34th street are progressing and will spur development . debate over plans of bloomberg_administration to develop residential and commercial towers over west side railyards continues , with fate of expansion plans for jacob j javits convention center uncertain .
 gail_murphy , medea benjamin and jodie_evans , founders of women 's antiwar group codepink , may have pulled off protest coup of republican national convention . while thousands of demonstrators chanted on streets , drawing only glancing attention from republicans , codepink members were inside madison_square garden night after night , unfurling banners and baring slogans , forcing even pres bush to take notice .
 shanghai 's magnetic levitation train , world 's first in commercial service , has peak speed of 268 miles per hour and takes just eight minutes to get to airport . it has yet to catch on , operating with less than one-sixth of capacity . factors may be price of ticket , five-minute hike from terminus to airport , and lack of prominent signs .
 naacp 's eastern long_island branch president lucius_ware calls on new_york gov george_pataki to intervene in case of victor_robelio_juarez_perez , guatemalan construction worker fatally shot by robert_behrle , suffolk_county deputy sheriff working part time as quogue police officer . ware says hispanics are encountering police profiling that blacks have endured on east end for decades . police and local officials deny allegations .
 internet merchant_trade_association_shop.org reports web retailers broke even in 2002 , first year they avoided losing money . e-tailers generated $ 76 billion in 2002 sales and stanched losses by streamlining operations . web merchants with pre-existing catalog operations had biggest operating margins . traditional retailers ' online divisions were profitable for first time . online-only retailers continued to lose money .
 therese fortier_willig , 81 , recalls crash of plane into empire state building in july, 1945 . she was working on 79th floor when plane struck 78th and 79th floors , killing three on plane and 11 in building . notes similarities to crash on oct 11 into high-rise apartment building on upper east side .
 anne_midgette critic 's diary column reviews and contrasts several musical events : film version of opera_rosa , collaboration between louis_andriessen and peter_greenaway , concert by chamber_music_society_of_lincoln_center featuring mezzo-soprano mary_nessinger and tenor violinist theodore_mook , metropolitan opera production of wagner 's gotterdammerung conducted by james_levine , and carnegie_hall recital by olga_borodina .
 profile of and interview with chuck_williams , founder of williams-sonoma gourmet cooking shops , on occasion of grand opening of williams-sonoma ` s new flagship store in time_warner_center at columbus_circle in new_york_city . williams 's passion for french cookware is basis of corporate empire that had $ 2.3 billion in revenue in 2002 .
 news analysis of how sen john_kerry 's world will change when he leaves spotlight of democratic convention . pres bush says he will begin campaigning as soon as convention closes , and continue through month as momentum builds to republican convention in new_york . financial situation will change as soon as kerry accepts $ 75 million that must last through election day , giving bush clear advantage , because he can continue fund-raising until his convention at end of august . success of democratic convention will be measured by polls . over last two weeks , bush campaign predicted kerry would get 15-point bounce after convention , although some describe that as optimistic in year of such polarization .
 two of five police officers involved in killing of sean_bell , unarmed black man who died in hail of police bullets in november 2006 , testify before grand jury in queens . det paul_headley and officer michael_carey testify voluntarily and without immunity from prosecution in case . it is first public appearance by officers since shooting .
 margo_jefferson article on new off broadway faces and fresh ideas . focuses on betty_shamieh 's play roar , kelly_stuart 's life of spiders , three seconds in the key by writer-performer deb_margolin , tracey_scott_wilson 's play the story at long wharf , craig_lucas 's play small tragedy , and comedie-francaise ` s production of moliere 's imaginary invalid at brooklyn_academy_of_music .
 billionaire boone_pickens , taking advantage of temporary tax break , gives $ 165 million to tiny charity set up to benefit golf program at oklahoma_state_university . money is held for less than an hour and then invested in bp_capital_management , hedge fund controlled by pickens . lawyers say ploy appears to be legal , but critics say pickens is manipulating charity for personal gain .
 conservationists who have fought for years to preserve unfettered public access to 18-mile stretch of wild , undeveloped california coast say they have been defeated by state_board 's approval of agreement that allows land 's owner hearst_corp to restrict public 's use of entire stretch of coast . agreement is part of larger deal under which state will pay $ 95 million to descendants of wililam_randolph_hearst to preserve most of 82,000-acre hearst ranch , including legendary hearst castle , in san_simeon .
 david_pogue column on success of tmz.com , web collaboration between warner_brothers and aol , both time_warner units , that publishes celebrity news in real time . in less than year tmz has become no . 1 entertainment news site , offering mix of text , video , links and polls . harvey_levin , veteran television reporter who is tmz 's managing editor , comments on site 's formula .
 democrats refrain from squabbling among themselves and instead attack pres bush in last of three public hearings of democratic platform drafting committee in santa_fe , nm . proposed draft will be presented to 186 members of democratic platform committee on july 9 , who will approve it for presentation to national_convention in boston in late july . final meeting focuses on domestic issues .
 pres bush arrives at dromoland castle as authorities brace for large demonstrations across ireland against war in iraq . is greeted on eve of european_union summit meeting by prime min bertie_ahern . bush 's arrival in ireland is in striking contrast to jubilant welcomes accorded to presidents ronald_reagan , bill_clinton and john_f_kennedy .
 article on controversies surrounding assemblyman joseph_cryan , new chairman of new_jersey_democratic_party . one is accusation by developer that he accepted unreported cash contribution of $ 2,000 , which probe by state attorney general 's office deemed not credible . other involved karen_golding , lobbyist and former campaign worker for gov jon_corzine , who was arrested for trying to break into cryan 's car and whose bail money was posted by corzine himself .
 senate_indian_affairs_committee hears testimony from off-season lifeguard who was named to head ` think tank ' allegedly used to funnel money from indian tribes to republican lobbyist jack_abramoff and his associate michael_scanlon , and to their pet projects . david_grosh says he used his rental_beach_house in rehoboth_beach , del , as official address of so-called american_international_center . senate panel and federal task force are investigating whether abramoff defrauded several indian tribes while charging them more than $ 80 million in fees and expenses to promote their gambling interests . rehoboth center was one of several nonprofit groups used by abramoff and scanlon . they frequently communicated via e-mail , giving senate investigators concrete evidence of their dealings . in 2001 alone , choctaws paid $ 7.7 milion to abramoff and scanlon for lobbying work , but pair spent just $ 1.2 million on designated projects , keeping remaining $ 6.5 million for themselves .
 deutsche_borse shareholders reject bid made by company 's chief werner_g_seifert to acquire london stock_exchange . company says it will give shareholders what they want : ` distribution of funds ' from its cash hoard of 700 million euros -lrb- $ 924 million -rrb- , probably in form of stock buyback or special dividend . deutsche borse leaves door open for renewed bid for london stock exchange if euronext or another suitor emerges .
 european commission rules that microsoft_broke_european_union law by using its ` near monopoly ' in windows operating system to squeeze out rivals in other kinds of software . fines microsoft 497 million euros -lrb- $ 603 million -rrb- . orders company within 90 days to offer version of windows with its media-playing software stripped out . also gives company 120 days to disclose necessary information about windows to rival makers of software for computer servers to allow them to design products that work as easily with windows as microsoft 's own server software . justice department says it is concerned about european action . microsoft to appeal .
 arts briefing column . assassins , winner of five tony awards , reportedly will close on july 18 if business at studio 54 does not improve . michael_flatley , commenting on robbery and murder of lord of the dance merchandising representative daryl_kempster outside hotel in johannesburg , says tour of south_africa will continue after those dancers too shocked to continue are replaced .
 british architect richard_rogers is chosen to design tower to be built by larry_a_silverstein at former world trade center site . rogers will design tower 3 at 175 greenwich street , his fourth major commission in new_york . japanese architect fumihiko_maki is to design tower 4 at 150 greenwich street . design work will begin immediately .
 africa is world 's fastest-growing cellphone market . number of mobile suscribers there jumped to 76.8 million , from 7.5 million , from 1999 to 2004 , at average annual increase of 58 percent . asia , next fastest-expanding market , grew by annual average of 34 percent in that period . one-fifth of africa 's cellphone growth is in south_africa , continent 's richest nation . cellphone boom in africa , where so many live in poverty , takes industry by surprise . but when african nations began to privatize their telephone monopolies in mid-1990 ` s , fiercely competitive operators began to sell air time in smaller , cheaper units , and cellphone use exploded .
 over 17,000 garment manufacturing jobs have left united_states for mexico and china in 11 years since north american free trade agreement was ratified , threatening livelihoods of mexicans who were lured to us in 1960 's , 70 's and 80 's by prospect of working in garment factories that moved from northern_states in search of cut-rate border labor . people who have lost jobs , most of them now citizens , are typically illiterate and speak little english .
 us airways $ 10.5 billion takeover bid for delta_air_lines may help lift airline industry , which has been plagued by high fuel costs , strained labor relations and bankruptcies . proposal may trigger streamlining of industry that will prompt other carriers such as united_airlines and continental to merge as well . us airways chief executive w douglas_parker works to convince investors that troubled industry can be profitable .
 article on expansion and renovation plans at aldrich_contemporary_art_museum in ridgefield , conn , one of america 's first museums devoted solely to showing work of living , particularly young , artists . $ 9 million project includes restoration of museum 's historic 1783 building and construction of 19,000-square - foot white clapboard and granite building keeping with area 's historic homes .
 andy_bichlbaum and mike_bonanno , pair of politically charged performance artists known as yes men , pulled stunts on republicans visiting new_york_city during republican national convention . crashed madison_square garden posing as fans of bush administration 's global warming policies and organized team to distribute fake bush campaign fliers along with stickers advertising yes men movie , set to open on september 24 .
 fifty years ago dr jonas_salk announced development of effective vaccine against polio . several books have been published on polio and its impact on american life since first epidemic in june 1916 . although polio cases no longer occur in us , 1,263 cases were diagnosed worldwide in 2004 . world health organization hopes to eradicate polio entirely by end of 2005 .
 fred_rogers , whose songs , stories and heart-to-heart talks on his popular television program mister rogers ' neighborhood taught generations of children how to get along in world , dies at age of 74 . program began nationally on public television in 1968 . its last episode was shown in aug 2001 . about 300 of 1,700 shows rogers made will continue to be shown . he won numerous awards over the years , including presidential medal of freedom .
 pentagon 's race called grand challenge involving robotic vehicles will be held on oct 8 . driverless , computer-controlled volkswagen touareg , known as stanley , is being prepared by stanford_university_computer scientists sebastian_thrun and michael_montemerlo . winner of race will receive $ 2 million . thrun says his goal is just not winning race but advancing robotics as science and explore applications ranging from aids for elderly to basic advances in intelligent computerized systems .
 private delegation of us experts on north_korea , including former national_security_council staff member jack_pritchard and former los_alamos_national_laboratory dir sigfried_hecker , will travel to north_korea and possibly visit nuclear weapons plant . bush administration officials say delegation does not have official government blessing . express concern that trip might complicate administration 's own delicate diplomacy with north_korea . john_w_lewis , professor emeritus of international_relati_ons at stanford_university , will lead delegation .
 janina_surga_couto is reunited with her sister , stella_newman , in binghampton , ny , 47 years after they last saw each other , living as polish refugees in germany , and their mother , leokadja_surga , sent 9-year-old janina away to be adopted by american couple without telling her husband . two other sisters now living in us decline to join reunion , finding it hard to bridge lapse of time . american red cross tracked janina down at request of mrs_surga 's brother and sister-in-law , who , like everyone in family , can not fathom how mrs_surga , now deceased , acted as she did .
 arverne by the sea , part of rockaway , queens , is undergoing renewal . builders have added hundreds of new homes in last five years in array of sizes and styles . first new construction in 30 years consisted of two-family homes on land bought through dept of housing preservation and development and promised enormous savings that would be passed to buyers . array of current and planned projects discussed .
 hbo pay cable channel , which has led list of emmy nominations for four consecutive years , shatters this year 's competition by taking 124 nominations . number is nearly double that of nearest competitor , nbc , with 65 nominations , compared with 77 last year . decline in nominations garnered by broadcast networks reflects their move away from traditional scripted formats like comedies toward reality series .
 august has been world 's deadliest month for plane disasters in more than three years , with five civil airline crashes . no single thread appears to run through crashes -- in canada , greece , venezuela , peru and off sicily -- but they appear to underscore gap between safety practices in wealthy countries like united_states , and those in many other countries . aviation experts say these accidents , with combined death toll of more than 300 , do not mean it has become more dangerous to fly .
 united_airlines , struggling to reorganize after two years in bankruptcy protection , reaches tentative agreement with air_line_pilots_association on additional wage and benefit concessions . united had asked pilots for $ 191.1 million in cuts . court documents show southwest_airlines will take 35 percent stake in ata_airlines , another carrier under bankruptcy protection , if its bid for some of ata 's assets is successful .
 showdown between united_states and north_korea over that country 's nuclear weapons program is severely testing washington 's oldest asian alliances . pres-elect roh moo hyun of south_korea has indicated he intends to accelerate south_korea 's embrace of north_korea , even as us looks for ways to ratchet up pressure on north_korea . in japan , defense min shigeru_ishiba has said japan will use military force as self-defense measure if north_korea resorts to arms against japan . his statement draws attention to fact that japan in reality has no strike ability . it is intended to influence ongoing debate in japan over widening military 's role in country 's defense .
 small team of legal historians is wrapping up work of reconstructing supreme_court 's first decade , period largely lost to history due to poor official records and fire that burned capitol in war of 1812 . supreme_court_historical_society hired maeva_marcus to run project 30 years ago . marcus and project 's three associate editors are closing their office , and eighth and final volume of documentary history of supreme_court_of_us , 1789-1800 , has gone to press .
 american oil giants conocophillips , marathon oil , amerada_hess and occidental_petroleum weigh resuming operations in libya if united_states soon ends economic sanctions against libya . possibility of lifting sanctions was raised by pres bush and british prime min tony_blair after libyan leader col_muammar_el-qaddafi admitted libya had tried to develop nuclear and other unconventional weapons and promised to dismantle them and submit to inspections .
 google acquires doubleclick , online advertising company , from private equity firms hellman_&_friedman and jmi equity for $ 3.1 billion in cash . deal is another step in google 's transformation from search engine into advertising powerhouse . doubleclick specializes in software for display advertising and has close relationships with web publishers , advertisers and advertising agencies . google 's chief executive eric_e_schmidt says merger is part of global growth strategy for company . doubleclick 's chief executive david_rosenblatt says his company 's strength lies in flashy banner ads and video advertising . deal keeps doubleclick from microsoft .
 powerful underwater earthquake strikes off west coast of indonesia , sending ripple of panic and public warnings across region still traumatized from deadly tsunami three_months_ago . new quake , measuring at magnitude of 8.7 , hits 200 miles farther south along same fault as more powerful dec 26 earthquake and tsunami that killed as many as 270,000 people in 12 indian ocean countries , including more than 100,000 indonesians . quake this time is not thought to have inflicted anywhere near same damage , with exception of indonesian_island_of_nias , where up to 2,000 people are feared dead . there is threat of wider devastation from new tsunamis . tremor this time strikes 125 miles from aceh_province , among hardest hit areas in dec , sending jittery residents fleeing from their homes .
 npd group market research firm reports video game industry sold $ 3.7 billion of hardware , software and accessories in us in december , up from $ 2.9 billion year ago . says full-year sales were record $ 12.5 billion . sony playstation and nintendo wii sold particularly well , but sales fell below expectations of industry analysts because of supply shortages .
 federal prosecutors significantly widen criminal case against executives involved in sale of questionable tax shelters by accounting firm kpmg , filing dozens of criminal charges against 19 defendants . new indictment augments and replaces indictment against nine people filed in august . new indictment adds 43 counts of tax evasion and two counts of obstruction of internal revenue service . 10 additional defendants include richard_rosenthal , former chief financial officer of kpmg .
 article recalls miss rheingold contests in new_york_city , which ran from 1942 to 1964 , whose winners became icons of modern american womanhood and democracy itself . company , whose brewery in bushwick , brooklyn , closed in 1976 and reopened in 1998 in utica , ny , has revived contest . 13 current finalists are all bartenders .
 mitra_hormozi , prosecutor , and bruce_cutler , defense attorney , make opening statements in trial of retired new_york detectives louis j eppolito and stephen_caracappa , who are accused of helping murder eight men as paid assasins for anthony_casso , former underboss of luchese crime family . mother of nicholas_guido , young man who had bad luck of sharing name with mob assassin who had tried to kill casso , testifies about his fatal shooting .
 new_york_stock_exchange_board plans to recommend that state and federal regulators pursue legal action against its previous board and former chairman richard_a_grasso over size of grasso 's pay package . regulators say securities_and_exchange_commission and new_york state atty gen eliot spitzer will assume responsibility for investigation to determine whether civil suit should be brought against grasso and former directors . such suit would not be filed if grasso agrees to return substantial portion of his pay . interim chairman john_s_reed has said that he expects grasso to return as much as $ 150 million of his compensation and that he will be starting talks with grasso in coming days to discuss matter .
 new_york atty gen eliot_spitzer 's investigation of abuses in insurance industry escalates with lawsuit accusing california broker , universal_life_resources , of fraudulent practices that led to higher premiums at major corporations . spitzer charges universal with steering business to insurers like metlife , prudential and unum provident in exchange for millions of dollars in payments . universal , like marsh_&_mclennan , is influential middleman , but in area of employee benefits .
 colombian congresswoman rocio_arias , who is outspoken advocate of united self-defense forces , northern colombian paramilitary group numbering 15,000 fighters , is one of growing number of politicians looking for ways to promote understanding of rebel forces and help them achieve peace without facing prosecution . eleonora_pineda , congresswoman also from region , and arias lead group of 16 legislators who support paramilitary leaders . arranged for ivan_roberto_duque , salvatore_mancuso and ramon_isaza , three united self-defense forces leaders , to address session of congress in july 2004 . hold that group is misunderstood within colombia and in global community .
 portable classrooms being installed across mississippi are cited as prime examples against fema and army_corps_of_engineers for wasteful spending and favoritism in $ 62 billion hurricane relief effort . 450 classrooms were installed by akima_management_services , politically connected alaskan-owned business , under $ 40 million no-bid contract . they cost fema nearly $ 90,000 each , double wholesale price and nearly 60 percent higher than price offered by two small mississippi businesses dropped from deal . government accountability office says portable classrooms were not secured in concrete foundation as required by state regulations . akima management president john_d_wood denies price gouging , saying speed demanded in doing job required charging premium . rep bennie_thompson of mississippi tells homeland security dept that fema ignored requirement to give preference to local businesses . school construction job is just one of several hurricane katrina deals under scrutiny by auditors and congressional investigators .
 chicago developer christopher_t_carley to announce $ 500-million project to build tallest skyscraper in us , designed by santiago calatrava for site on lake shore drive . fordham spire would be 115 stories tall , 1,458 feet to roof with spire on top reaching about 2,000 feet . sears tower is 1,729 feet high with antennas . skyline photo . comparison drawing . calatrava says he is not concerned that residential tower would be terrorist target . twisting design to disperse chicago 's winds explained .
 defense_dept identifies 64 service members who died in iraq in week ended apr 10 , making it deadliest week yet for americans in uniform there . dead service members came from all major service branches , and from all around country . they were as young as 18 , as old as 45 . at least two were women . families grieve as their remains are returned home .
 mitsubishi announces appointment of finbarr_j_o'neill as chief executive and co-chairman succeeding pierre_gagnon , who has resigned . o'neill , former chief executive at hyundai_north_america , is credited with resuscitating that brand in late 1990 's . under gagnon , mitsubishi sales soared last few years , but plummeted in 2003 because of concerns about quality . o'neill 's recent resignation from hyundai catches company executives by surprise .
 liu xiang -lrb- china -rrb- wins men 's 110-meter hurdles at 2004 olympics . terrence_trammell -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and anier_garcia -lrb- cuba -rrb- wins bronze . xing huina -lrb- china -rrb- wins women 's 10,000-meter race . ejigayehu dibaba -lrb- ethiopia -rrb- wins silver and derartu_tulu -lrb- ethiopia -rrb- wins bronze .
 abc becomes first of six large broadcast television networks to complete selling most of commercials during its prime-time programs scheduled for 2005-6 season . most other broadcasters are anywhere from quarter to half finished with their own selling , with exception of nbc , which is still in talks with agencies and advertisers . abc 's estimated sales total of $ 2.1 billion in regular nonsports programming compares with estimated $ 1.6 billion for comparable shows in upfront market last year and is somewhat higher than what most analysts and agency executives forecast . mike_shaw , president for sales and marketing at abc , comments .
 multiple roles played by top pengaton and government officials , who have joined ranks of military contractors as executives , board members and lobbyists , are coming under closer scrutiny after former top air_force official darleen_druyun negotiated lucrative job contract with boeing co while still overseeing boeing business . edward c aldridge , who worked under defense_sec donald h rumsfeld until last year and now sits on board at lockeed_martin , which gets more than $ 20 billion each yeaer in military contracts , is coming under scrutiny for possible conflict of interest .
 kirk_kerkorian 's close associate jerome b york steps down from general_motors_board , firing off letter sharply critical of company 's management . kerkorian says he is no longer interested in increasing his stake in gm , where he is largest shareholder , with about 9.9 percent . moves , in which gm responds with defense of its turnaround strategy , sends company 's shares sharply lower , deepening kerkorian 's own losses on investment he began acquiring nearly 18 months ago .
 frank rich op-ed column notes that remains of two us soldiers , pfc thomas_l_tucker and pfc kristian_menchaca , were discovered near yusufiya , iraq , on day former white_house official david_safavian was convicted in washington of lying to government officials about his ties to lobbyist jack_abramoff . holds that difference between safavian 's kind of public service and that of soldiers says everything about disconnect between government that has sabotaged war in iraq and brave men and women who have volunteered in good faith to fight it .
 analysts say airbus chief louis_gallois has made important progress toward putting company back on track . healing firestorm of cross-border recriminations is challenge he concedes he did not fully anticipate . france , germany , great_britain and spain for almost 30 years have been designated as ` center of excellence ' for different parts of aircraft manufacturing process .
 pres bush 's financing request for iraq includes $ 1.2 billion in hedge money in case allies do not send peacekeepers and pentagon is forced to mobilize more troops . also includes at least $ 3 billion to pay for intelligence and other activities . other details of emergency spending bill , which includes $ 20.3 billion for iraqi reconstruction and $ 65.6 billion for pentagon activities noted .
 atomium , iconic structure built in brussels , belgium , as centerpiece for 1958 world 's fair , is undergoing $ 33 million restoration . tourists have always been drawn by structure 's strange silhouette and its sheer size : over 300 feet high , with globes 59 feet in diameter . it was seen as emblem of belgium 's postwar industrial boom and optimism about nuclear energy .
 tens of thousands of pakistanis march in karachi to oppose military attack on iraq , in potent sign of clashing pressures on pres pervez_musharraf as crucial vote nears in united_nations . demonstration is organized by powerful coalition of conservative islamic parties . pakistani political scientist rasul_baksh_rais says vote in un puts paksitan in very difficult position , but that those running state are very pragmatic and realistic . pakistan has important financial ties to saudi_arabia and other islamic states in persian_gulf that are quietly supporting american squeeze on iraq .
 article by michael_shapiro , author of book the last good season : brooklyn , the dodgers and their final pennant race together , on overcoming his longtime hatred for dodgers ' owner walter_o'malley . notes o'malley 's plan to build new domed stadium at flatbush and atlantic avenues was repeatedly spurned by robert_moses and he eventually accepted offer to move team to los_angeles .
 imclone systems ' former chief executive samuel d waksal and his father , jack , close book on insider trading case by agreeing to final settlement with securities_and_exchange_commission . samuel waksal will pay $ 3 million penalty , and his father will return $ 2 millin in profits . two men neither admit nor deny any allegations .
 kevin_spacey appears poised to take leading position with financially troubled old vic theater in london . baby blue curtain is placed over ruglike copy of guernica , pablo_picasso 's powerful antiwar painting , at entrance_of_united_nations_security_council chamber . new_york youth symphony 's new ensemble , jazz band classic , for young musicians in new_york region , will make its debut on feb 9 at aaron_davis_hall at city_college . exhibition portrait of the art word : a century of artnews photographs opens at smithsonian institution 's international gallery in washington .
 jury convicts former patronage chief to mayor richard_m_daley_robert_a_sorich , his aide timothy_mccarthy and two others on corruption and related charges . convictions leave many people wondering how much closer to daley investigation might go and what consequences it could have as he faces re-election for fifth term next year . 44 people have been charged in investigation and 41 convicted .
 reports from commission investigating terrorist attacks of sept 11 , 2001 , are crisply worded , remarkably free of artifice and achieve high point in detail , clarity and coherence . are regarded as vastly more readable than similar reports of earlier commissions . reflect frank and non-partisan style of co-chairmen thomas_h_kean and lee h hamilton . first 12 of 17 reports are gathered into book-form , published by publicaffairs .
 congressional democrats step up pressure on bush administration to ease gasoline prices by releasing oil from strategic_petroleum_reserve , but administration officials plan to keep adding to reserve until some time next year . group of democrats , led by sen charles_e_schumer , will demand that government release as much as 60 million barrels from reserve over next two months .
 arnold schwarzenegger prepares for what he believes will be full frontal assault during coming debate with four other candidates for governor of california . aides expect some trickery from state sen tom_mcclintock , who is splitting republican vote with schwarzenegger . poll shows bit of momentum swinging toward gov gray_davis , with just 53 percent of likely voters in favor of recall , compared with 58 percent a month ago .
 procter_&_gamble will try to persuade_food_and_drug_administration to recommend approval of intrinsa , first drug to increase woman 's sex drive . plans to tell fda that drug increases sexual desire of women and frequency with which they have satisfying sex . some experts say approval of drug will bring new era in handling of women 's sexual problems . jennifer_r_berman , director of female sexual medicine center at university_of_california , los_angeles , and consultant to procter_&_gamble , comments .
 principal at michael_soguero at bronx_guild_high_school , one of five small schools inside adlai_stevenson high school , is charged with interfering with new_york_city police officer juan_gonzalez as he tried to arrest unruly student . soguero says he had isolated student into classroom and was speaking with him when gonzalez came into arrest him . gonzalez says soguero and school aide james_burgos pushed him , causing him to fall over desk backward . incident sets off criticism of mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's plan to flood most dangerous schools with police .
 medicare has approved confusing array of competing drug discount cards for eligible participants to go into effect june 1 . retirees of different income groups complain of incomprehension , interviews . cards are prelude to broad drug coverage set for 2006 . are intended to provide discounts of 10 percent to 25 percent for participants who have no other prescription drug coverage . each card , which costs up to $ 30 a year , provides different discounts on different drugs and is accepted by different pharmacies . participants can chose only one .
 labor department reports unemployment rate fell to 5.7 percent in jan from 6 percent in dec , while employment in jan grew by 143,000 jobs , biggest monthly gain since 2000 . economists warn statistical quirk accounted for much of seesawing of last two months . data suggest job market may at least have bottomed in recent weeks , if not yet turned around . federal reserve reports consumers lowered their debt in dec for only second time in nearly five years and at sharpest rate since 1992 . graphs and tables of jobs data . consumer borrowing graph .
 article on scene at sunny_atlantic_beach_club in atlantic_beach , ny , on nassau_county 's south shore , where cabana units and lockers are rented to about 1,000 members each summer . focuses on club 's 18-member cabana crew as they work , mostly for tips , to cater to members ' wants and needs . cabana crews work at public and private beaches scattered across long_island sound , jersey shore and westchester_county .
 iraqi insurgents fire mortar at fourth us infantry division base near balad on baghdad-tikrit highway , killing one soldier and wounding two others . strategically located balad has become important military base for american troops in central and northern iraq . in separate attack , insurgents open fire on american convoy , killing two soldiers . estimates of american , british and iraqi war dead to date noted .
 new_york_yankees notebook discusses rainout against baltimore_orioles , which forced yankees pitcher brandon_claussen to miss second start . yankees first baseman jason_giambi 's hitting improves after having eye problem corrected . center fielder bernie_williams is scheduled to be designated hitter in class aa trenton after recovering from knee surgery .
 russian pres vladimir v putin seems to obliquely compare foreign policy of us to third reich in speech commemorating 62nd anniversary of defeat of nazi germany . comments are latest in series of sharply worded russian criticisms of us foreign policy . many russians say sharper edge reflects frustration that russia 's views , in particular opposition to nato expansion , have been ignored in west .
 some 7,000 people attend annual european fine art fair in maastricht , netherlands and estimated 70,000 are expected before fair ends . 30,000 works are being offered for sale by some 200 dealers from 14 countries . $ 5.4 million portrait by dutch master jan_lievens and $ 6.3 million pastel by degas have been sold .
 dexter_filkins , diana_b_henriques and walt_bogdanich of the new_york_times are among winners of 13 george polk awards . filkins wins for coverage of war in iraq , henriques for series on fleecing of young soldiers by insurance companies and bogdanich for series on railroad accidents . seymour_hersh wins for new yorker accounts on torture of prisoners in iraq . bill moyers gets career award . other winners listed .
 intel_corp reports better-than-expected sales and profits , giving investors at least slight reason to hope that worst of technology industry 's long downturn is over . posts sales of $ 7.16 billion and profits of $ 1.05 billion in fourth_quarter_of 2002 . earned $ 3.12 billion for 2002 . chief executive craig_r_barrett comments .
 new york times / cbs_news poll shows that american support for pres bush 's policy in iraq has surged now that war has begun , but that there are deep partisan divisions in nation 's view of conflict . finds that 70 percent of americans approve of bush 's handling of iraq , increase of 19 points in 10 days . percentage of people who disapprove of bush 's iraqi policy drops 15 points , to 27 percent , during same period . while 90 percent of republicans say they approve of bush 's handling of iraq , just 50 percent of democrats do .
 summary of vital statistics reports that 59,651 people died in new_york_city in 2002 , continuing steady decline that began in early 1990 's and setting record low for city 's death rate . infant mortality reached record low of 6 deaths per 1,000 babies -- less than half rate of 1980 's . aids deaths and homicides , which together claimed 2,300 lives in 2002 , were down from over 8,000 in some years in 1990 's . 122,937 babies were born in city in 2002 , lowest birth rate since ` baby bust'_of 1970 's and early 1980 's .
 article in series 10_years_later , examining aspects of state government since gov george_e_pataki took office , focuses on changes at state_university_of_new_york . he has acted through his trustees to alter suny 's priorities and , some say , has politicized system 's board with appointees more attuned to conservative thinking . has tied suny 's fortunes to alliances with business sector , making suny key economic player . suny , because of pataki , in many ways now runs like private_university . tuition and fees have risen 70 percent . state 's share of financing for core academics has fallen to 55.6 percent from 68.6 percent for all four-year campuses . campuses have raised $ 1 billion in donations since 1999 and toughened admissions standards . applicants are assured spot only at 30 community colleges , which essentially have open admissions .
 article on raid by spanish_civil_guard on underground rooms at toro_albala_winery_in_aguilar_de_la_frontera , spain , containing more than 5,000 stone and other artifacts , some dating back to phoenicians . winery owner antonio sanchez_romero say artifacts have been displayed at winery museum for years and that he has hired archaeologist alberto_lopez to catalog items , first step toward making collection legal .
 european space agency spacecraft huygens lands on saturn 's moon titan and shows pictures of drainage channels running to mysterious shoreline . flat dark areas could be lakes of liquid methane or just flat surface of dark material . craft sends back data and images for one hour and ten minutes . effort is hampered by loss of one communication channel for transmitting data to cassini mother ship , cutting number of pictures to 350 from planned 700 , but mission is considered success .
 interest rates near their lowest levels in decades , surprising economists who predicted that rates would start rising this year . in mortgage market , average rate on 30-year fixed loan falls to 5.67 percent , lowest since early 1960 's . yield on treasury 's benchmark 10-year note is at 3.65 percent , just a few ticks away from 44-year low of 3.57 percent reached in october . government announces surprising loss of 308,000 jobs in february .
 analysis of relative threats posed by illicit nuclear weapons programs in iraq , north_korea , iran , libya and pakistan finds iraq , against which pres bush acted first and most decisively , posed smaller proliferation risk than other countries . notes even some of bush administration intelligence experts now acknowledge that other countries ' programs are more advanced than iraq 's and consequently pose greater threat of passing technology to terrorists . pres bush still defends invasion of iraq given uncertainty about country 's weapons programs .
 judith_anderson travel article on visit to offbeat , untrendy attractions in florida , including charles_hosmer_morse museum of american art , scenic boat tour and stay at park_plaza_hotel , all in winter park , atlantic_ocean grille in cocoa_beach , gatorland in orlando and historic bok sanctuary and bok tower in lake_wales .
 news that 22 roman catholic elementary schools in brooklyn and queens will close due to falling enrollment comes as blow to 4,000 children attending those schools and their families . has wrenching significance for catholic school alumni who frequently identify neighborhood where they grew up by parish school . it is signal event for new_york and for power_of_institutional_catholic_church , no longer dominant in urban landscape . history of catholic_school_system , founded in 1840 's , discussed .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column holds sen john_edwards , newly named as sen john_kerry 's running mate , will help democrats reconnect to middle american voters . notes cultural issues often drive working-class americans with strong economic interest in electing democrats to vote republican . sees edwards striking chord on values as well as issues . holds it is time to call deaths of 10,000 people a month in darfur , sudan , genocide .
 suicide bomber driving tractor blows himself up near gates of abu_ghraib_prison , west_of_baghdad , wounding five iraqi civilians . second attack on prison in 48 hours comes as military officials announce small riot at camp_bucca , other major american detainee camp in iraq , south of baghdad . both camps are close to maximum capacity .
 transportation_security_administration is planning to reduce by 15 percent number of security workers it uses to screen airplane passengers as summer vacation season approaches . intends to make half of its cuts , about 6,000 of 55,600 full-time screeners , by end of may and rest by end of september . some smaller airports will get extra screeners as jobs are shifted from city to city . agency is cutting work force to meet hiring cap set by congress . staffing cuts weigh heavily on minds of airport operators .
 record industry executives who have focused on legal fight against file-sharing on napster and kazaa are starting to address music fans directly , using both incentives and threats to persuade consumers to buy their products again . doug_morris of universal says technology has destabilized industry but may also offer new ways for legally listening to and buying music online . photo . graph . paul_vidich of warner_music explains agreement with apple_computer on file sharing by people under one roof , with radius of about 150 feet .
 nasdaq stock market must rebuild foreign expansion strategy after $ 5.3 billion bid to acquire london_stock_exchange is rejected . british takeover rules state that nasdaq can not make further bids unless another company does so first . nasdaq holds 28 percent of london exchanges shares . new_york_stock_exchange is seen as potential bidder .
 article on poor performance of stock and bond funds in first_quarter . one niche that gained was natural-resources stock funds , which surged more than 13 percent in quarter on strength of high oil prices . declnes in other sectors were setback for investors after dreamlike fourth_quarter 2004 , when stock funds surged more than 10 percent .
 gov george e pataki supports proposal to build new tunnel under east_river as part of $ 6 billion rail link from downtown manhattan to kennedy_international_airport_along_long_island rail road tracks . says plan would offer travelers one-seat ride to airport terminal in just 36 minutes and , more important , make working in financial district more attractive to people on long_island . delivers semiannual progress report on lower manhattan .
 pres bush visits american troops at military camp in qatar where war in iraq was run . insists that evidence shows saddam_hussein was capable of unleashing biological agents and that full truth about his destructive weapons would emerge . bush then boards air force one and flies length of iraq and over baghdad . decision to view iraq from air , rather than from ground as prime min tony_blair of britain did , underscores american concerns about obstacles still facing bush as his administration struggles to gain footing as occupation power . flyover nonetheless symbolizes allied triumph in iraq . european and middle east leaders acknowledge that bush , chief architect of successful war in iraq , now wields new powers , even if they continue to differ with washington over how this influence might be used .
 james_nichols is being detained in killing of cha_vang , hmong hunter found dead on jan 6 in northern_wisconsin . is charged with violating his parole and being in possession of firearm . killing reignites racial tension in wisconsin_northern_woods where two years ago , six white hunters were killed by hmong hunter during confrontation .
 laurel graeber family fare column on tyrannosaurus sue exhibit at liberty_science_center in jersey city , russian fairy tale wasalisa the beautiful presented by storyteller laura_simms at underhill playground in flushing , queens , and screenings of michael_curtiz 's 1938 film adventures of robin_hood and chuck_jones ' cartoon parody , rabbit hood at film forum .
 ohio is confusion patchworkd of litigation and election board hearings centering on republican challenges to 23,000 new voter registrations in 23 counties . motion is also filed in newark , new jersey , where federal court has jurisdiction over 1982 agreement barring republicans from using so-called ` ballot security activities ' in black and hispanic communities . republicans say consent agreement covers only national_committee , not ohio_state_party .
 nbc is expected to announce five-year contract extension that will continue jay_leno 's run as host of the tonight show with jay_leno until dec 31 , 2009 . move leaves open questions about nbc 's intentions for late-night show late night with conan_o'brien . o'brien , whose contract with network will expire in dec 2005 , has followed leno for 11 years and will have to wait until start of new decade before he could hope to succeed him as host of tonight show . leno 's contract extension could inspire other networks to pursue o'brien .
 alzheimer 's disease researchers recently told johns_hopkins_university conference that five drugs now available to treat disease 's memory and thinking problems have not lived up to public 's high expectations , offering only modest benefits on average . leave doctors unsure about value of prescribing drugs . some researchers said it may be decades before real progress is made against disease . 1 million of nation 's 4.5 million alzheimer 's patients take drugs , at overall cost of $ 1.2 billion a year .
 tiny desert town of branson , colorado , population 77 , has only 65 students at its school but has additional 1,000 enrolled in online affiliate , and gets $ 5,600 from state for each one of them . photos . map . district has received $ 15 million since 2001 , hiring everyone in town and broadcasting radio commercials around state , but academic record is mixed and school is now on academic probation . branson online is one of at least 100 internet-based public schools set up nationwide , often with private partners . colorado comr william_moloney notes that while vouchers and charter schools get more attention , his state alone is now spending $ 20.2 million a year for 3,585 students . educators also raise questions about academic results in colorado , florida and elsewhere .
 lvmh_moet_hennessy_louis_vuitton , world 's largest maker of luxury goods , releases rosy report for 2003 and note of caution for 2004 . operating profits rose 7 percent in 2003 and sales were up 4 percent , led by signature louis_vuitton leather goods . lvmh finance director patrick_houel and spokesman olivier_labesse comment .
 arts briefing column : riverdance is being performed in great hall of people in beijing , china . mother teresa , the musical is playing in rome until october 19 beatification ceremony for mother teresa . 40,000 fans are expected at concert in mexicali , mex , when luciano_pavarotti sings selections from la boheme . exhibit of depression-era photographs and prints will open at new_york public library .
 richard_j_daley is recalled on 50th anniversary of his first swearing-in as mayor of chicago . family and friends , political sidekicks and proteges , historians and journalists exchange stories about last big-city boss who died in office in 1976 , at age 74 . his son richard_m_daley , mayor since 1989 , sits in father 's old office and runs city with more of velvet glove but no less skill .
 new wave of heritage buildings celebrating black history comes as black architects struggle to gain foothold in profession . bill gwaltney says at least 25 african-american cultural buildings are being planned , including museums in washington and san_francisco , but melvin_mitchell of national organization of minority architects points out that only few of commissions have gone to blacks . biggest challenge is that percentage of black architects hovers around one percent , or 1,400 of nation 's 120,000 licensed architects . allison_g_williams , dennis_mann , rodner_wright , jennifer_newsom and others comment . photos . c c pei , chinese-american , explains his commission for slavery museum in fredericksburg .
 sec says richard_p_scalzo , partner at pricewaterhousecoopers who was chief outside auditor for tyco_international , turned blind eye to improper accounting practices at company from 1997 to 2001 . says scalzo issued fraudulent audit reports at tyco and the he engaged in improper professional conduct . adds scalzo did not force company to disclose details of bonuses and other perquisites paid to its top executives and he allowed company to offset unexpected costs through undisclosed reserve fund . regulators bar scalzo from practicing before commission as accountant , effective ending his auditing career .
 rockrose_development_corp has acquired land along east_river in hunters point , queens , where giant red pepsi-cola sign sits atop former bottling plant . seven colorful towers with 3,200 apartments are planned , designed by arquitectonica , with sign remaining as offbeat signature of queens_west_complex . photo . rendering . company hopes to design apartments so no one looks directly into a letter . nearly two-thirds of land will be open space .
 nokia reports second-quarter decline in sales and slashes its earnings forecast for current quarter , as it continues to cut prices to try to win back customers . total sales fell 5 percent from year ago , to 6.64 billion euros -lrb- $ 8.19 billion -rrb- , while operating profit from cellphones fell 39 percent , to 797 million euros . net income was 712 million euros , up 14 percent from last year .
 prime min tony_blair says british troops could begin leaving iraq by end of next year . comments come day after iraqi president jalal_talabani says in television interview that iraqi soldiers could replace british troops in southern_iraq by end of 2006 . neither britain nor united_states has set timetable for withdrawal .
 gen pervez_musharraf of pakistan , playing host to pres hamid_karzai of afghanistan , promises that his country will not allow islamic militants to disrupt afghan election from pakistani soil . western diplomats in afghanistan charge that pakistan is , in fact , sanctuary for afghan militants , and that pakistan is turning blind eye to their activity . say western intelligence agencies have concluded that taliban are planning major attacks to disrupt afghanistan 's first presidential election , scheduled for oct 9 . their blunt comments about pakistan appear to be first public step in effort to press pakistan regarding taliban before afghan election .
 boat filled with elderly tourists on cruise of lake george capsizes suddenly and sinks , killing 21 passengers and injuring several more . goes down only a few hundred feet from lake 's western shore , possibly swamped by bigger boat . boat , ethan_allen , is owned by shoreline cruises . police are interviewing pilot , richard_paris . 14 of passengers were members of group of elderly people from trenton , mich , on new_england color tour .
 op-ed article by rafael_gumucio on very real possibility that chile will be first country in americas to elect female president . describes michelle_bachelet , who is clear front-runner , as divorced mother of three who is atheist and socialist party member in conservative and overwhelmingly catholic country where divorce was just legalized last year . says election may be reaction to dark dictatorship of gen augusto_pinochet combined with thriving economy and underlying passion for change .
 california 's death row is largest in country , with 639 inmates . convicted killer donald_j_beardslee , who was executed jan_19 , was on death row for nearly 21 years . average stay for 11 inmates executed in state since death penalty was re-enacted in 1977 has been 16 years . prof gerald_f_uelmen says he is not surprised that gov arnold_schwarzenegger rejected beardslee 's petition for clemency . says no first-term governor wants label of being soft on death penalty .
 six american soldiers and their interpreter are killed by roadside bomb in western_baghdad , in one of deadliest single attacks against us troops in capital in recent months . deaths raise to 71 number of american_service members killed in may . military officials warn that casualty rates are likely to stay high in summer .
 scope of economic ties between china and japan offers counterpoint to their rapidly deteriorating diplomatic relations . two countries have sharply increased trade with each other , many thousands of chinese people either attend japanese universities or work for japanese companies , japanese investment in china totals $ 31.5 billion and shanghai has largest overseas japanese community . tensions are fueled by china 's desire to reclaim its historical role as region 's economic and political leader , position it lost to japan in last_century and half . but possibility that ill will could lead to conflict is lessened by reality that both countries would have much to lose .
 breakdown of bernard_kerik 's nomination to head homeland security dept is expected to strain relations between pres bush and kerik 's strong advocate , rudolph w giuliani . giuliani says he is apologizing to bush for pushing kerik 's appointment . says he should have known about kerik 's legal problems because he had named him police commissioner and then gone into business with him . white_house aides say bush has long been leery of giuliani as man who could not be counted on for loyalty president demands . advisers to bush add that as giuliani contemplates run for president in 2008 , there is virtually no chance he will be named to position in administration because , they say , he would have his own agenda .
 new_york_city files federal suit against 15 gun dealers in georgia , ohio , pennsylvania , south_carolina and virginia contending they made illegal sales . had sent private investigators posing as gun buyers to make purchases in those states . holds 15 dealers ' sales have been linked to more than 500 crimes in city from 1994 to 2001 . is sharing evidence with federal law enforcement agencies .
 four-year-old maria_valerio and her five-year-old brother john , who suffer from epidermolysis_bullosa , rare skin disease that is often fatal for children , receive donations after nov 13 new_york_times article . margarita colon , st mary 's healthcare system for children social worker assigned to help santa artiles with her two children , describes donations and other philanthropic acts of kindness family has received .
 pres bush drops by senior citizens ' center in miami 's little havana section of miami -lrb- fla -rrb- to try to capitalize on his plan to overhaul medicare and then goes on to collect $ 1.8 million at fund-raiser at miami airport hilton and another $ 1.2 million at cocktail reception in tampa_bay . photo . vice pres dick_cheney collects $ 500,000 in grand rapids , mich , and $ 600,000 in akron , ohio , bringing campaign 's total to date to more than $ 21 million .
 trial of pakistani immigrant shahawar_matin_siraj on charges of plotting to bomb herald square subway station in 2004 begins . is first involving new_york_city police department 's intelligence division since it was granted expanded surveillance powers by judge_charles_s_haight jr 2003 . defense argues that paid police informant osama_eldawoody , who made secret audio and video tapes of conversations with siraj and james_elshafay , ensnared siraj , who would not otherwise have become involved in plot .
 aol time_warner_says_securities_and_exchange_commission probers suspect it improperly overstated its revenue by up to $ 400 million over two years , indicating its accounting problems may be far worse than previously acknowledged . probers say $ 400 million bertelsmann paid aol for advertising was really partial rebate of $ 6.7 billion aol paid it for its stake in aol europe . aol defends accounting .
 article , in light of current exhibit at center for architecture in greenwich_village , on plans already underway for some 25 sites in new_york_city , new jersey and nassau_county in event city wins bid to host 2012 olympics . deputy mayor daniel_doctoroff , founder of nyc2012 , says projected new construction budget , bulk of which will be privately financed , exceeds $ 3 billion .
 increasing number of men in colombia and across latin_america are turning to plastic surgery to improve their appearance . plastic surgeons say men , some 10 percent of their clientele just five_years_ago , now make up more than 30 percent . prices are relatively low in colombia , making plastic surgery increasingly affordable even to middle class .
 leveraged buyout firms , flush with cash after years of reduced activity , begin closing more deals . many have to recoup from previous acquisitions that failed . thomas_o_hicks , who runs hicks , muse , tate_&_furst , struggles to restore his and firm 's reputation after losing about $ 1 billion for his investors after peak of 1990 's stock market bubble . range of soured hicks , muse_ventures is broad . mr_hicks refocuses firm on buying companies at reasonable prices and expanding them to increase profits . current feeble economy offers unique opportunities with many struggling companies eager to discard parts of their businesses .
 trial over failed big-budget film sahara ends with split decision . writer clive_cussler argued that film , based on his book , failed because he did not have final approval on screenplay , and producer philip_anschutz claimed he overpaid cussler because writer had overstated his book sales . jury sides with neither , ordering cussler to pay $ 5 million to anschutz firm crusader entertainment for his misdeeds . jury also says crusader owes cussler $ 8.5 million for rights to second novel .
 united_airlines announces it does not expect to emerge from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection until first_half_of 2004 . had previously projected that proceedings would end as early as december 2003 . airline , which is expected to lose $ 8 billion in 2003 , blames economic uncertainty for delay in plan . major problem facing united involves its four employee pension funds , which have unfunded liability of $ 6 billion to $ 7.5 billion .
 tension arises between union officials and executives over allocation of 10 million shares that 400 united_airlines executives are expected to divide up when airline comes out of bankruptcy in february . shares could be worth about $ 480 million rather than earlier estimate of $ 150 million . assn of flight attendants has sharply criticized allocation , even at lower estimates , because members have made about $ 4 billion in annual compensation concessions .
 article on documentary movie being made by james d stern that chronicles final days of struggle between republican and democratic political organizers in ohio during 2004 presidential campaign between pres bush and sen john_kerry . movie leaves impression that bush campaign was run by professionals while kerry campaign was run by amateurs . stern says that movie , given scandals and escalating debate over rationale for war in iraq , has gained relevance .
 japan 's prime min junichiro_koizumi , backing away from his calls for independent , reform-minded policymaker to lead japanese central bank , names toshihiko_fukui , career bureaucrat backed by country 's establishment , to be bank 's next governor , succeeding masaru_hayami , whose term ends in march . japan 's main business groups and central bank 's staff support fukui . fukui will be joined on bank 's governing board by new deputies -- toshiro_muto , former vice finance minister , and kazumasa_iwata , who worked at economic_planning_agency and is now cabinet adviser and professor at university_of_tokyo .
 article on girl scouts in public housing , program subsidized by federal and local grants which reaches out to girls ages 5 to 17 in public housing in jersey city , hoboken and union_city . program includes meetings of older scouts , ages 14 to 17 , who are part of select group known as leadership_institute .
 el paso_corp will conserve cash by cutting its dividend 82 percent and selling more assets . per-share dividend , which has been 87 cents per year , will now be 16 cents , saving company about $ 425 million annually . operations to be sold include petroleum terminals in florida and oil refineries in westville , nj , and corpus_christi , tex .
 editorial says sovereignty l paul_bremer_iii handed to iyad_alawi is hollow and uncertain , and not the outcome americans envisioned when soldiers were sent to liberate iraq last year . says june transfer date was fixed to ensure at least appearance of progress as american presidential campaign gets under way . says it is ludicrous for bush administration officials to suggest that america 's occupation of iraq has ended , when it has merely moved to new stage .
 tribune co says newsday publisher raymond_jansen and hoy publisher louis_sito are retiring early and under pressure . newsday publishes four-page examination of how two papers exaggerated circulation figures in recent years . says newsday delivered free , often unsolicited , copies to people 's homes and counted them as paid . tribune names timothy p knight to succeed jansen and names digby_solomon diez interim hoy publisher and timothy_kennedy interim hoy chief operating officer .
 sec_donald_rumsfeld_tells_house panel bush administration will seek billions more dollars to fight terrorism and for possible action in iraq . photo . says pentagon is now shifting money from other programs because congress did not provide $ 10 billion requested last fall to fight terrorism . says it is impossible to say how much money will be requested for iraq .
 marriott courtyard hotel with 200 hotel rooms , 250,000 square feet of office space and 46,000 square feet of retail space is planned for 125th street and park avenue in harlem , next to metro-north railroad stop on land owned by new_york_college_of_podiatric_medicine . development group is headed by michael_caridi and raymond_caldiero , and investors include kevin_liles and jackie_autry .
 carlo zauli , lawyer hired by individual and institutional investors in parmalat , provides new details about bank_of_america account in new_york that he says holds 7 billion euros -lrb- $ 8.7 billion -rrb- that was transferred there for calisto_tanzi , parmalat 's founder and former chairman , and some his closest associates . his report raised question of how so much money could be held in single account in us bank .
 actor sam_waterson will be spokesman for td ameritrade . company was formed after ameritrade_holding_corp acquired td waterhouse usa . campaign , created by ogilvyone worldwide , carries theme of ` independent spirit ' . waterson was spokesman for td waterhouse for past two years . new company decided to continue with actor to help smooth transition of two brands .
 senate democrats block vote on nomination of john_r_bolton to be ambassador to united_nations for second time , raising possibility that pres bush will make recess appointment . vote of 54 to 38 , six votes short of 60 required to break filibuster , comes after white_house chief of staff andrew h card jr makes fruitless attempt to negotiate end to impasse with one of bolton 's chief democratic opponents , sen_joseph_r_biden_jr . pres bush must now decide whether to use his constitutional authority to put bolton in ambassador 's job when congress takes vacation . in latest senate vote , republican sen george v woinovich sides with democrats .
 speed cameras on britain 's highways , streets and lanes are being vandalized by enraged motorists . vigilante group called motorists against detection claims it has attacked more than 1,000 cameras . holds cameras can not detect tailgating , bad driving , drunk driving or drug driving . government claims cameras have been resounding success , reducing speed by average of 2.2 miles per hour at speed-camera sites , reducing numbers of people speeding at sites by 31 percent and reducing by 42 percent number of people killed or seriously injured at sites . notes polls show majority of britons say they support having cameras on roads . about two million people are caught by speed cameras a year , generating more than $ 200 million in fines .
 doping scandal that could end up being most widespread in cycling 's history brought havoc to tour de france with several of top contenders implicated and removed from field on eve of prestigious race . race will go off without riders who finished second , third , fourth and fifth behind lance_armstrong last year -- including this year 's favorites , jan_ullrich of germany and ivan_basso of italy . ullrich , basso and at least seven other riders were suspended after meeting of race organizers and team directors in strasbourg , france .
 annual pentagon report on china issues warning about military buildup directed at taiwan as well as supportive welcome to china 's burgeoning global position . holds that china is stepping up preparations for military battle over taiwan independence with large increase in short-range ballistic missiles near taiwan , among other armament . asserts that taiwan should assume larger role in its own protection . chinese military spending is predicted to be $ 90 billion in 2005 , but report acknowledges outside analysis is imperfect .
 review of case in which lawyer and former new_york_city police officer robert_race admitted , after 20 years , that he had lied in case of murder of police officer ronald_stapleton . race , who was friend of stapleton 's and at his bedside after he was assaulted in 1977 , claimed that stapleton told him his attacker was black . 20 years later , race admitted he had made up story to assure that stapleton 's family would get enhanced benefits that come with officer being killed in line of duty . race finally admitted truth and was suspended from praticing law for three months . now works from small office in broolyn , far cry from height of his practice . tony_francesehi , truck driver with organized crime connections , was convicted of murder , but maintains his innocence and says he is scapegoat .
 profile of arielle_tepper , 31-year-old granddaughter of late real estate tycoon philip_levin , who is using some of estimated $ 1 billion she inherited from her grandfather to help finance broadway plays jumpers and a raisin in the sun and her summer play festival , showcase of 18 previously unstaged shows that opens july 5 and runs through aug 1 at five-theater complex at theater row theaters in manhattan . tepper is producing and financing it herself at cost of $ 1 million . tepper comments .
 independent sector , trade association of some 700 nonprofit and philanthropic institutions , says it does not support provision of house bill that would require foundations to give 5 percent of their assets a year to charity to maintain tax-exempt status . foundations can currently count administrative expenses toward 5 percent . independent sector president diana_aviv says foundation support averages 2 percent of budgets_of_group 's nonprofit members .
 roman abramovich , russia 's richest man , purchases 42 percent stake in russia 's largest steel group evraz for estimated $ 3 billion . is second major steel deal with russian company in three weeks . some analysts say strategy is to consolidate russia 's industry around one or two companies and link up with foreign steel makers to ensure export market .
 california gov arnold_schwarzenegger 's budget proposes capping enrollment in healthy families program at 732,000 children , which would deny an estimated 300,000 otherwise eligible children health-care coverage under state 's medicaid program . schwarzenegger seeks to cut $ 2.7 billion from variety of social services and $ 1.3 billion in payments to local governments as part of effort to close projected $ 14 billion budget deficit . budget also depends on california voters approving $ 15 billion deficit - reducing bond in march to fund state activities beyond june .
 rap performer earl_simmons , known as dmx , puts harlem brownstone on market for $ 1.9 million . plans by developer harry_b_macklowe to create condominiums and urban spa with miraval at former river terrace on east 72nd street are running into gantlet of new_york_city challenges , from zoning changes to dealing with more than 100 rental tenants still living in building . luxury penthouse at 400 east 59th street that was owned by opera singer anna_moffo is on market for $ 5.45 million .
 new_york jets redraw plans for $ 1.5 billion football stadium in manhattan so they will not compete with events at madison_square_garden . will re-emphasize stadium 's connection to jacob k javits convention center by providing 200,000 square feet of convention and meeting space that would bring center 's total to 1.3 million square feet .
 bush administration officials offer detailed plans for how america 's pension system might be strengthened but receive cold reception from members of congress , who say they fear measures will hurt companies that offer pensions . treasury under sec peter r fisher and asst labor sec ann l combs testify before two house subcommittees .
 israel 's leaders forbid palestinian leaders to leave country for talks in london , as much of rest of israel takes day to mourn its dead following pair of deadly suicide attacks . talks in london , being sponsored by prime min tony_blair , are intended to encourage palestinian leadership to become more democratic and less corrupt . israeli officials also order closing of three palestinian universities . israeli tanks and helicopters continue military operations in gaza_strip , where they say they killed one palestinian gunman .
 new_york_city dept of health and mental hygiene has been closing down restaurants at furious pace since broadcast on feb 23 of news video showing rats swarming inside kfc / taco bell in greenwich_village one day after it passed inspection . among victims is popular cafe on union square that has not failed city health inspection in 17 years . its owner , charles_milite , says inspectors are citing number of violations that would previously have merited slap of the wrist .
 article describes difficulty staffing tom_stoppard 's new three-part epic the coast_of_utopia , which will be populating lincoln_center 's vivian beaumont theater for next six months . director jack_o'brian had to line up cast and crew available for entire six month run . process resulted in 41-member cast full of marquee names and six top designers .
 producers announce rosie_o'donnell will play golde , long-suffering wife and devoted mother in current broadway production of fiddler on the roof , beginning on september 20 . call casting , with harvey_fierstein as tevye , ` a match made in musical-theater heaven ' . cast change comes at critical time for fiddler , which has been drawing only between 55 and 65 percent of capacity in recent weeks .
 rand corp 's headquarters may soon become local landmark in santa_monica , calif , when it is completed in fall_of 2004 . start of rand 's long-awaited project opens door to redevelopment of santa_monica_civic_center , area where rand was major land owner until few years ago . struggles between rand and santa_monica_city government to build on site for last_20_years detailed .
 warnings of violence in baghdad against hospitals , schools and other targets interrupt almost every sector of life . residents keep children home from school , us military confines soldiers to barracks and shopkeepers complain that they have no business . l paul_bremer says us and britain will double size of iraqi_defense_forces , bringing number to 200,000 by september . roadside bombing in mosul kills two american soldiers and wounds two others .
 charles_stillman , lawyer for tyco_international 's former chief financial officer mark_h_swartz , challenges jury to find evidence that his client helped to loot company of hundreds of millions of dollars , closing arguments . portrays prosecutors as overzealous . new_york state prosecutors have charged swartz and former chief executive l dennis_kozlowski with stealing $ 170 million by hiding details of their pay packages from board . are also accused of stealing $ 430 million by selling tyco shares after artificially pumping up its price .
 op-ed article by paul_hendrickson lauds missisippi for bringing its first-ever murder charges in killing of three men conducting voter registration drive for blacks in philadelphia , miss , in 1964 . says michael_schwerner , andrew_goodman and james_chaney are martyrs and heroes , but holds that credit should also be given to some mississippians : journalists , lawyers , activists , librarians and citizens who formed coalition of hope and belief and kept case alive over many years . says justice is welcome , even when it is late .
 report by bear stearns analyst david_strine concludes that us airlines will add very few new planes to their fleets between now and end of 2007 even as number of passengers is expected to grow . expects 0.6 percent rise this year and 3.3 percent in 2007 . also expects strong demand to push prices up 8.1 percent this year and 3.9 percent next year .
 us , france and britain reject as stalling tactic iranian proposal that france organize and monitor production of enriched uranium outside iran . sec condoleezza_rice sees nothing new . javier_solana of european_union has reported that iranian negotiator ali_larijani rejected call to halt key nuclear activities and spent their meeting airing iran 's historical grievances .
 iraqis struggle to grasp impact of saddam_hussein 's humiliating capture in darkened spider hole near tikrit , but they hope that shadow he has cast for generation over iraqi_nation has passed . capture brings surge of popularity for president george_w_bush and american occupation on iraqi street , yet potential for another turn of public sentiment remains . there is joy in sadr_city , baghdad 's impoverished shiite suburb , and some defiance in city 's adhamiya_district , which is 100 percent sunni muslim .
 police dig up body of woman at former home of dean faiello in newark and believe it is body of maria_cruz , manhattan woman who has been missing since april 2003 , about time she was scheduled to have plastic surgery performed on her by faiello . suspect she may have died as result of botched procedure . faiello pleaded guilty in june to practicing medicine without license , disappeared in september before sentencing and is believed to be in costa_rica photos .
 westchester county dist atty jeanine_f_pirro says she will run for sen hillary_rodham_clinton 's seat . accuses clinton of using her post as steppingstone to presidency . pirro is political moderate who supports abortion rights , gay rights and death penalty . she is seen by many republicans in new_york and washington as their best hope of pulling off big upset in 2006 by defeating clinton . more realistically , republicans hope her dogged style , sharp wit and telegenic presence will help them raise tens of millions of dollars and at least bruise clinton in advance of her possible 2008 presidential run . prospect of sharp-elbowed , well-financed challenger like pirro is sure to intensify national interest in senate race in new_york . it will be closely watched by republicans as test of clinton 's views and skills since her first run for post in 2000 .
 analysis of bill_before_house that would reduce by hundreds of millions of dollars the money that new_york_city will receive over next six years for transportation aid . says it reflects new_york 's declining power in congress . funds are part of $ 275.5 billion transportation bill for highway and mass transit projects nationally .
 american exchange student ahmed omar_abu_ali was arrested at islamic_university_of_medina in saudi_arabia and detained for 20 months before being released to face charges in united_states of plotting with al_qaeda to assassinate pres bush . charge outrages members of northern virginia 's growing muslim population . case underscores how some religious institutions that some muslims consider mainstream are coming under scrutiny by anti-terrorism investigators .
 katherine_n_lapp , executive director of metropolitan_transprotation_authority , receives 22 percent raise , to $ 235,000 a year . officials cite substantial raises given to directors of region 's other transportation agencies in 2002 and 2003 and to heads of nation 's other mass transit systems . raise comes at time when authority is seeking fare increases and new state taxes to stanch growing budget deficit .
 second of two articles , captive clientele , describes how insurance industry uses members of congress to thwart efforts to stop predatory sales practices that mislead young , inexperienced soldiers and violate pentagon rules . rep chet_edwards 's intervention with army on behalf of lanny_peavy 's american amicable life insurance is example , as is house measure that will once again keep pentagon from tightening insurance sales rules . decades of deficient enforcement at defense_department have also done little to stop abuses . pentagon does not even keep records to track rogue agents . pamela_m_stachler explains how her son was sold policy he believed was savings plan . insurance industry heavy lobbying to drive legislation and influence pentagon recounted . jim_cooper , ellen_o_tauscher and jim_ryun , members of house_armed_services_committee , are among those intervening with pentagon on behalf of insurance industry .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on un 's decision to cover tapestry reproduction of picasso 's antiwar masterpiece , guernica , when sec of state colin_powell goes there to make his case for war with iraq . criticizes bush administration 's shifting arguments for war . criticizes pres bush for inviting only conservative columnists to white_house for briefing on iraq_before_state_of_union_address .
 prime min junichiro_koizumi of japan will attend 60th anniversary tribute to three-month world war ii battle for okinawa that took lives of 94,136 japanese soldiers and 940,00 okinawan civilians . okinawa 's anguish over widespread civilian suicides has been sharpened by deep belief there that soldiers from japan 's main islands encouraged okinawan civilians to choose suicide over surrender . pohto .
 united_states puts security council on notice that secretary of state_colin_l_powell will open debate next week on authorizing war against iraq , saying time for disarming country peacefully is coming to end . american diplomats say powell will present to council what united_states considers evidence that iraq has links to terrorism and is continuing to develop secret weapons of mass destruction . powell 's goal is to break impasse at united_nations and persuade skeptics there that baghdad must be disarmed by force . as part of bush administration effort to keep pressure on saddam_hussein 's government , gen richard_b_myers , chairman of joint_chiefs_of_staff , breaks with recent practice and gives hint of american troop movements into northern iraq . security council is fiercely resisting moves toward war , despite pres bush 's indictment of hussein in his state of union address . diplomats say privately that they hope powell , in his presentation , will present evidence convincing enough to break impasse .
 judge marguerite t simon rules that disputed $ 24.5 million new jersey lottery jackpot belongs to teri and cornell_davis . says there is no evidence supporting claim by workers at englewood_hospital and medical center that ticket was bought with money from their lottery pool by co-worker jamal_townes , neighbor of davises .
 palestinian suicide bomber blows himself up amid crowd of young israelis in front of tel_aviv_nightclub , killing at least four and wounding dozens . bombing is first major attack since israeli prime min ariel_sharon and palestinian leader mahmoud_abbas called for end to violence on feb 8 . bombing endangers efforts to end over four years of violence and renew peace negotiations . abbas condemns attack .
 article on broklyn noir , collection of crime stories set in different brooklyn neighborhoods that will be published in july by akashic books . book is brainchild of tim_mcloughlin , writer , editor and court clerk in kings_county_supreme_court , and akashic_publisher_johnny_temple . series of readings and events , beginning at office of brooklyn boro pres marty_markowitz , will extend into fall . some of stories , all set in brooklyn , are by well-known writers , including pete_hamill .
 vornado_realty_trust raises bid for equity office properties to $ 41 billion . tops bid from private equity giant blackstone_group . offer includes assumption of $ 15.3 billion in debt . blackstone 's bid has advantage of being all-cash offer as opposed to vornado 's mix of cash and stock . vornado 's bid requires shareholder approval which could cause several months of delay and sour deal for impatient investors .
 mbna_corp has been switching credit card accounts from visa or mastercard payment systems to cards issued by mbna 's new partner , american_express_co . switch is not illegal , as slamming is , practice some phone companies used in 1990 's to steal away competitors ' customers . mbna 's general counsel louis j freeh says company is taking ` comprehensive ' approach to marketing american_express cards to make up for 30 years when it could not offer alternative to visa or mastercard .
 article on charles_d_lavine 's surprise victory in new_york 13th assembly district 's primary over democratic incumbent david_sidikman . victory is first for fix albany , political committee founded by nassau_county executive thomas_suozzi to push for state government reform . lavine , little-known defense lawyer and glen_cove city councilman , is scheduled to attend party given by nassau_county_democratic_party leader marsha_shulroff to meet local politicos .
 columbia_tristar , warner home video and other us film companies slash prices in attempt to thwart sale of counterfeit dvd 's in moscow and other russian cities . columbia_tristar is setting up factory outside moscow to produce licensed copies of hit movies . russian anti-piracy director konstantin_zemchenkov says piracy accounts for 9 out of every 10 dvd 's sold and 6 out of every 10 cd 's .
 three of five men whose convictions were overturned in 1989 central park jogger attacks file federal civil rights lawsuit against new_york_city , its police dept and prosecutors . allege racial animus and wide conspiracy among law enforcement officials . suits seek $ 50 million each for antron_mccray , kevin_richardson and raymond_santana jr .
 pres bush visits alabama and georgia after tornadoes strike region . comforts residents and promises federal aid . hastily arranged trip aims to counter image of federal indifference and ineptitude following hurricane katrina . bush visits enterprise high school in alabama , where eight students died and tours neighborhood in americus , ga , where two people died .
 bob_herbert op-ed column says new_york_city and new_york state are essentially broke , yet gov george_pataki and mayor michael_bloomberg are supporting completely insane idea to contribute hundreds of millions of dollars toward cost of new stadium for new_york jets . says value of jets could skyrocket , but cost to public will be far greater than estimates being tossed around now , and returns will be far less .
 article on conference in santa_barbara , calif , attended by more than 250 sociologists , anthropologists , historians and other scholars examining wal-mart for insights into nature of american capitalist culture . notes that wal-mart , with annual sales of $ 256 billion and 20 million shoppers each day , has greater reach and influence than any retailer in history . examines ways in which company has changed international trade , work force and us economy .
 in rite of spring , opening rounds of ncaa men 's basketball tournament see handful of unlikely teams come out of nowhere and embarrass standard-bearers of college game . teams seeded no 10 or lower have history of getting to round of 16 , but not much farther . this year , univ of wisconsin-milwaukee knocks off boston college of big_east_conference and alabama_of_southeastern_conference , vermont_defeats_syracuse and bucknell_fells_kansas . neither vermont nor bucknell could advance to round of 16 , but enduring appeal of underdog is evident .
 tom_freston is honored at annual roast for media executives after he is fired as chief executive of viacom . routines by freston_,_news_corp president peter_a_chernin , and other moguls were well-received by audience . mark s katz worked with freston on speech . material did not directly attack viacom chairman sumner m redstone who removed freston from his position after 20 years . cbs_corp chief executive les moonves and freston 's successor philippe_p_dauman were present . redstone did not attend event .
 hamas and fatah negotiators report general agreement for mohammad_shbair , retired president of islamic_university in gaza , to replace hamas prime min ismail_haniya as leader of unity government . still not clear is whether hamas will make concessions needed to get israel , us and europe to resume aid and other financing . photo . shbair is not hamas member but university has close ties to group .
 dr joel_palefsky , university_of_california , san_francisco , professor , describes possible use of new vaccine against human papillomavirus to fight anal cancer . regulators in australia and european_union have approve vaccine , called gardasil , for boys ages 9 to 15 even though there is no current evidence that it will help protect against anal cancer in men . merck , maker of gardasil , is conducting clinical trial on such use .
 article on rising stature of laguardia_community_college in long_island_city , queens , one of city_university_of_new_york 's six community colleges . laguardia ranked in top 3 of 13 large community colleges in nroth american in evaluation by community college survey of student engagement , nonprofit group at university_of_texas .
 four algerians accused of plotting attacks using lethal toxin ricin are formally charged with terror and chemical-weapons offenses in london court , as antiterror police arrest six more people in bournemouth on english channel . six are charged under terrorism act of 2000 , aimed at those suspected of possessing ` articles of value to a terrorist ' . prime min tony_blair says arrests show there is very real threat to people of britain .
 donald_d_thompson , who was ousted in 2003 after nearly 23 years as oklahoma_state_judge , is charged with three felony counts of indecent exposure on the bench . is charged with masturbating in view and hearing of court employees . he is also accused of using a penis pump while on bench . one legal commentator estimates that ` minimally 40 to 60 case ' that thompson presided over could warrant appeal . thomas denies allegations .
 article on retired toy importer stephen_zimmerman , 61 , of east_hampton , ny , who relaunched toyz marketing year ago to import prescription drugs from scales drug stores , retail pharmacy chain in manitoba , canada . zimmerman says drugs shipped directly to his customers are brand-name and generic medications identical to , but less expensive than , ones sold in us . food and drug administration could prosecute zimmerman under food , drug and cosmetics act of 1938 , which prohibits importation of prescription drugs into us .
 debate over same-sex marriage was black-or-white proposition in 2004 when voters in 11 states barred gay couples from marrying . eight more states are considering similar ballot measures this year . some of proposed bans are struggling in polls because issue has largely failed to rouse conservative voters . people on both sides of issue say biggest change is that supporters of same-sex marriage are likely to be as mobilized as opponents . ballot measures in arizona , colorado , idaho , south_carolina , south_dakota , tennessee , virginia and wisconsin support constitutional amendments defining marriage as between man and woman .
 bush campaign and republican national committee enter october with roughly $ 108 million collectively as compared with kerry campaign and democratic_national_committee 's $ 79 million . both sides have spent heavily on television commercials as poll numbers tighten . spending in race by candidates , parties and advocacy groups is conservatively estimated to hit $ 1.2 billion .
 administration officials say pres bush is determined to get tax bill enacted quickly that eliminates taxes on stock dividends , even if only briefly . say bush much prefers senate bill . say democrats lack political stomach to restore tax once it is off books . members of congress think talks between house and senate on bill could take weeks . sen bill_frist 's refusal to bring up bill to increase nation 's debt limit by nearly $ 1 trillion during tax debate , bill democrats hoped would highlight effects of tax cuts , has forced treasury to cancel next week 's routine sale of short-term securities .
 thomas_friedman op-ed column on visit to china 's ministry_of_science and technology in beijing , one of about 50 gold-standard ` green ' buildings in world , in company of robert_watson_of_natural_resoures_defense_council , who advised china on construction . reports that chinese leaders and business community are recognizing huge problem of pollution and encouraging new green technology , even as bush administration looks to ease environmental pressure on american_industries .
 article on challenges facing black theater in america , which is in midst of downsizing , and work of kenny_leon , former artistic director of alliance theater in atlanta . leon is directing new $ 2.6 million broadway revival of a raisin in the sun , starring sean_combs , audra_mcdonald and phylicia_rashad and is trying to establish true colors , national nonprofit black theater company .
 former sen and democratic presidential candidate george_mcgovern is not hero to all residents of his hometown of mitchell , sd , because of his staunch opposition to vietnam war . dakota wesleyan_university , where mcgovern taught in 1950 's , plans to build museum and library dedicated to his legacy . george and eleanor_mcgovern library and center for public service will house many of mcgovern 's papers and also promote university programs intended to draw students toward public service . $ 12.5 million fund-raising campaign is more than halfway toward its goal . it is giant step for town of fewer than 15,000 people where no street or plaza bears mcgovern name .
 potamkin organization plans to invest up to $ 100 million to open potamkin cadillac-hummer and chevrolet-saturn of harlem in east_harlem . is first auto dealerships in northern manhattan in more than 40 years and only one in harlem . move is seen as proof of reviving economy in area . east harlem has not gentrified as quickly as other parts of harlem . neighborhood welcomes investment , but is nervous over effect of gentrification that could price some longtime residents out area .
 tents for hundreds of iraqis who fled fierce fighting between insurgents and american_marines in falluja are springing up in one neighborhood of baghdad . shaky cease-fire between americans and iraqi_fighters has allowed some families back into falluja , but many families have been stranded as american military keeps up its siege to force guerrillas to hand over their weapons . most of those who fled falluja did so with few or no belongings .
 russia plans to auction yuganskneftegas , largest production subsidiary of yukos , giant private oil company , to pay back tax claim of more than $ 27 billion , and it sets startlingly low opening bid of $ 8.65 billion , which is expected to favor gazprom , government-run natural gas company . presence of two other russian companies in auction is seen purely as effort to make auction seem valid . foreign bidders are discouraged . sale to gazprom would create energy company that controls about 20 percent of nation 's oil exports but also has some of world 's largest energy reserves . signals to russia 's business elite that government is reasserting its control of nation 's resources . judge letitia_z_clark , federal bankruptcy judge in houston , issues temporary restraining order intended to block participation in auction of banks that were expected to finance deal .
 pres bush orders naval amphibious force that includes 2,300 marines to sail from mediterranean and nearby waters to position off liberia 's coast . leaves force 's mission vague . says conditions in liberia are deteriorating rapidly . holds pres charles_taylor must leave country . announcement catches pentagon officials off guard , sending them scrambling to explain that three ships carrying marines could be off liberian coast within week or so . decision falls far short of actually sending american troops ashore . united_nations_sec gen kofi_annan hails decision .
 two of 17 soldiers who died when two black hawk helicopters collided in mosul had just arrived in iraq , fresh from flight training school . pentagon officials are continuing to investigate collision , but few details are certain . at fort_campbell , ky , where many of 17 were based and where four others were killed in another black hawk incident week ago , officials and chaplains spend day delivering grim news to families . mounting death toll has left unsettled feeling over nearby towns whose identities and economies are anchored by proud home of 101st airborne div .
 three of indiana 's seven republican members of congress are locked in tough races , with campaigns drawing big money and big names from both parties . close races are between rep chris_chocola and joe_donnelly in second district , rep john_hostettler and brad_ellsworth in eighth district and rep mike_sodrel and baron_hill in ninth district . democrats portray indianans as unusually disaffected and predict that their party will make significant gains .
 denise_o'donnell and charlie_king , democrats seeking party nomination for new_york state attorney general , are calling on party leaders to suspend need for statewide petition by candidates who do not have support of 25 percent of delegates to state_party 's convention at end of may . king asks rival andrew_m_cuomo to instruct convention delegates to suspend rules and allow all six contenders to be placed on primary ballot .
 labor department reports prices declined 0.1 percent in may , first drop in 10 months , as gasoline and oil prices fell sharply . core rate of inflation , excluding volatile prices of food and energy , was almost flat for second consecutive month and lower than wall street analysts expected . report provides new evidence inflationary pressure may have peaked for year . energy prices dropped 2 percent in may . gasoline prices fell 4.4 percent , though they were still 10 percent higher than year earlier .
 last article in series the next space race . india 's national space program bills itself as thrifty space exploration for common man . india , with budget of only $ 450 million a year , has 13 satellites in orbit . it produces some of world 's best remote imaging satellites and is planning to send satellite to moon by 2007 or 2008 . only 6 of india 's 37 satellite launchings have failed . engineers say they are using space technology to improve lives of tens of millions of indians . say by using satellite imagery , they have helped 175 people in majhgawan_karan reclaim 40 acres of barren land in area long haunted by hunger .
 sales are brisk at downtown by philippe_starck , condominium conversion across the street from new_york_stock_exchange . contracts on 202 of 326 units are signed in just three weeks . photo . sheik khalid_bin_mahfouz , member of powerful saudi family , sells two apartments in olympic tower condominium for total of $ 3.57 million .
 gunmen kidnap four egyptian contractors outside their residence in baghdad , and an american soldier is killed north of capital by roadside bombing that wounds two others . kidnapping comes two days after abduction of italian journalist giuliana_sgrena near baghdad university . two separate islamic militant groups claim they took sgrena and threaten to kill her if italy does not withdraw its 3,000 troops from iraq .
 new_york_city voters overwhelmingly reject measure to institute nonpartisan city elections in defeat for mayor michael_bloomberg , who pushed strongly for change in face of democratic party opposition . photos . vote is 70-30 percent . voters also elect 51 city council members . letitia_james is elected on working families line to brooklyn seat of slain councilman james_e_davis , defeating his brother geoffrey_a_davis . republican daniel_m_donovan jr is elected staten_island district attorney , ending democratic run of more than century . new jersey democrats consolidate legislature control . democratic gains on long_island also noted .
 edward_rothstein critic 's notebook on exhibition of sermons , letters , speeches and notes by rev dr martin_luther_king jr at sotheby 's new_york . holds that these articles allow viewer to come in intimate contact with extraordinary mind that shaped civil rights movement and gave new texture to american dream . notes that before sotheby 's could hold auction , 7,000 page cache of king 's papers was acquired by morehouse_college in atlanta , king 's alma mater , for undislosed sum .
 designers of differing styles and nationalities chose largely positive american themes for fashions shown last week in paris and milan . this comes at time when europe is still deeply distrustful of america 's foreign policy . designers plan their collections months in advance and rarely set out to make overt references to current events . tried-and-true symbols of american strengths and power appear at shows of prada , jean_paul_gaultier , junya_watanabe and louis_vuitton . they include virile texas cowboy boots and broad hats and jackets with military theme .
 sen john_kerry , campaigning in las_vegas , vows not to send nuclear waste to yucca mountain , nev , and charges pres bush broke similar promise he made four years ago . bush campaign , showing its awareness of issue 's importance in state , circulates memos scouring kerry 's record to show votes that could be construed as supporting yucca mountain storage . republicans note sen john_edwards backed storage before joining ticket .
 deltona suffered through three of florida 's four hurricanes in 2004 . one week before first storm , six teenagers and young adults were bludgeoned to death with baseball bats in crime that investigators say was provoked by disappearance of video game system . four men have been charged in murders . sinkhole began opening along busy thoroughfare on dec 13 . it was 225 feet wide and 50 feet deep , and took 1,282 truckloads of sand to fill on dec 29 .
 french government 's decision to oppose bush administration 's policy in iraq means less work for french military contractor dassault aviation . opposition in france and germany to war could result in those countries losing military contracts for immense american arms market . for contractors in britain , which backed america in iraq , it may become much harder to work with european_partners in development of weapons systems that none could handle alone .
 investigations into nuclear programs of north_korea , iran and libya reveal that pakistan has been intellectual and trading hub of loose network of hidden nuclear proliferators . a q khan research laboratories in kahuta has been peddling advanced nuclear technology for years , quietly circulating sales brochure to aspiring nuclear weapons states and network of nuclear middlemen around world . network is global , stretching from germany to dubai and from china to south_asia , and involves many middlemen and suppliers . experts say what is striking about string of recent disclosures is how many roads appear ultimately to lead back to kahn research laboratories , where pakistan 's own bomb was developed .
 geneticists at university_of_leicester in england report that y chromosome of thomas_jefferson belongs to lineage that is rare in europe but common in middle_east , raising possibility of his having jewish ancestry . use cells donated by descendants of jefferson 's paternal uncle for inquiry into whether jefferson had fathered hidden family with his slave sally_hemings .
 california accountant steven_michael_acosta pleads guilty to charges of conspiracy , tax fraud and obstructing federal investigation and pledges to help prosecutors as they conduct widening criminal investigation of questionable tax shelters . plea may have significant consequences for david_greenberg , one of 16 former kpmg employees who are scheduled to stand trial in september .
 shortage of funds and patent battles are keeping antiretroviral drugs from reaching over 90 percent of infected people in world 's poorest countries even though united_nations declared worldwide drive against aids three years ago and pres bush has pledged $ 15 billion for aids treatment in poor nations . progress in distributing drugs , which have sharply cut death rate in west , has been extremely slow despite steep price drops . world health organization says only some 300,000 people are getting drugs in world 's poorest nations of six million who need them . experts agree delays , compounded by inadequate medical facilities and training in very poor nations , are likely to persist unless spending increases sharply .
 documents released by rep henry_a_waxman , democrat and house committee on government reform ranking minority member , show that american diplomats pressured halliburton company to keep using altanmia , kuwaiti subcontractor , despite unusually high prices for oil delivery services . altanmia was hired by halliburton subsidiary kellogg_brown_&_root , and prices for service were immediately questioned by critics in congress , but defended by halliburton . pentagon is still considering possible call for refund and fbi is examing fuel transactions . some documents suggest american diplomats were eager to gain kuwait 's wider cooperation and provide greater fuel supplies to iraq and in doing so rejected questions about altanmia pricing .
 new york times / cbs_news poll of all voters finds that republicans view their party as divided and say they are not satisfied with choice of candidates seeking republican presidential nomination in 2008 . republican voters continue to support pres bush and war in iraq , including troop increase there , but they say candidate who backs bush 's war policies would be at disadvantage in 2008 . poll highlights republican uneasiness and weakness going into 2008 election . just 34 percent of all respondents say they have favorable view of republican party . 47 percent say they have positive view of democratic party .
 long island journal column . about 60 long_island head start staff members , parents and former students attend alumni reunion at timber point country club in great_river , where they swap success stories and seek to recruit charter members for alumni_association . huntington_chamber_of_commerce_business_partners holds its first business celebrity spring into fashion show at huntington_town_house .
 first article in series profiling servicemen deployed in persian_gulf for possible war with iraq . lieut dewaine_barnes is one of three black fighter pilots among 79 others on aircraft carrier uss_abraham_lincoln . his goal is deeply rooted in history since he attributes career as aviator mostly to exploits of tuskeegee airmen , decorated world war ii air squadron , whose members were first african-american pilots permitted to fly for us military .
 entergy_nuclear_northeast concludes that it would take nine hours and 25 minutes to evacuate 10 mile zone around its indian point nuclear power plant in buchanan , ny , up from previous estimate of five hours . westchester county says study confirms suspicions about gridlocked roads around plant , but will not substantially alter evacuation plan . kld_associates conducted study , which is required by federal_emergency_management_agency .
 dan_barry , in about new_york column , notes that for few fleeting hours on jan 16 , official temperature of manhattan dropped to one degree , tying record for coldest jan 16 in city history , mark set in 1893 . describes his experience during rough circumnavigation of manhattan in morning hours when temperature clung to one degree and most streets were deserted .
 rep richard_a_gephardt , who made his first bid for presidencey in 1988 , has been endorsed by 34 members of house , down from 58 members who endorsed him 15 years ago . it is painful reminder to some people of gephardt 's waning influence in congress , stage he dominated for over decade .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column hopes pres bush does not have any more adoring office wives tucked away in white_house , now that he has rewarded condoleezza_rice , karen_hughes and harriet_miers for their years of workaholic devotion . asks who could care about miers ' qualification for supreme_court when she has helped bush clear brush , shares his born-again christian faith and , according to david_frum , once said bush is most brilliant man she knows .
 article on closing of k-8 schools in diocese of rockville centre , ny , whose enrollment has shrunk 19 percent over past five years . decline on long_island is more than twice as steep as in us as whole , where catholic elementary enrollment slipped by 8.5 percent over same period . enrollment in 11 catholic high schools on island , on other hand , has increased 12 percent in last five years despite rise in tuition .
 idaho gov james e risch on sept 7 issued order that allowed wildlife officials to destroy 100 to 160 domesticated elk that escaped from idaho game farm near yellowstone_national_park , which is home to thousands of wild elk . officials are concerned that animals could pollute genetic purity of region 's native elk or could carry chronic wasting disease or other illnesses and infect wild herds . 28 elk have been killed by idaho fish and game employees and by hunters . game farm operator rex_rammell has recaptured 40 . his photo .
 fannie_mae says its stockholder equity rose about $ 8 billion in 2003 , after factoring out dividend payments and stock repurchases . gain was almost equivalent to fannie_mae 's reported earnings of $ 7.9 billion for 2003 . gains will not put to rest criticism that fannie_mae is too large and too risky .
 two 16-year-old girls from new_york_city are arrested and charged with immigration violations after fbi asserted that they intended to become suicide bombers . spokesman for one family rejects accusation , saying government misinterpreted school essay . both girls are in america illegally , one born in guinea , the other from bangladesh , and are being held in family detention center in pennsylvania . one official expresses doubts about allegations and says no evidence of plot has been found .
 stag parties , which have long tradition in europe , and especially in britain , are now increasingly being held in eastern_europe . proliferation of budget airlines serving eastern_europe has opened up inexpensive alternative to british cities . about 30 established companies now operate stag_party tours to prague , bratislava , budapest , tallinn and warsaw , and dozens of smaller operations are vying for business . some people in cities on receiving end of tours are scornful of roaming bands of drunken foreigners , but tour organizers argue that they provide service by channeling drunken groups into organized activities .
 republican national convention cost over $ 154 million to stage , with new_york_city_host_committee raising $ 84 million , making it most expensive such event in nation 's history . committee files report with federal_election_commission covering fund-raising and expenses over two-year period . it documents unprecedented success at having corporations and wealthy political partisans help pay for event . top donors to convention included mayor michael_r_bloomberg , who was largest single giver , donating $ 5 million in cash and also paying for $ 2 million in legal and accounting services . other donors were david_rockefeller , who contributed $ 5 million , and ibm , which provided $ 2.45 million in computer equipment and services .
 article on international_impac_dublin_literary_award , which , at 100,000 euros this year -lrb- $ 121,700 -rrb- is largest prize for single literary work in world . prize is financed by bronx-born james_b_irwin sr , whose company , improved management productivity and control , has its european headquarters in dublin . irwin comments . this year 's winner is this blinding absence of light by moroccan exile tahar ben_jelloun .
 kellen_r_nins , bobby_spezzano , lawrence_l_haywood and drew gladstone plead not guilty to attempted robbery of convenience store in greenwich , conn , in february . all are students at greenwich_high_school along with 15-year-old who has been arrested but whose name has not been released . police say that as many as nine students may have been involved in total of three incidents , which include robberies of deli and liquor store .
 bush administration aides have begun hinting that afghanistan 's elections set for june_may have to be postponed because of security problems and failure to register enough voters . say only 8 percent of eligible voters have been enrolled and only 2 percent of women . registration workers are avoiding large swaths of country considered unsafe . pres hamid karzai reportedly is determined to hold at least presidential vote on time , in part because he expects to win . bush aides say delay of parliamentary elections is more likely .
 ann hulbert article on reach advisors study of members of generation x , once known as ` slackers , ' who are now parents . more than half of children under 18 now have parents born between 1965 and 1979 . twice as many gen-x mothers as baby boom mothers say they spend over 12 hours a day attending to child-rearing and household responsibilities . some half of gen-x fathers devote three to six hours a day to domesticity , compared with 39 percent of baby-boom dads . gen-xers , unlike elders , seem to value family time over money and status .
 statehouse journal on rocky start for nevada 's new republican gov jim_gibbons , who has public approval rating of only 28 percent after recent gaffes , budgetary challenges and troubles with fbi investigation of gifts from military contractor while he was in congress . democrat dina_titus , who gibbons defeated , says controversies only confirm worst images of nevada . gibbons was largely invisible five-term congressman who won with less than 50 percent of vote after taking few strong positions and relying on derision of titus for southern accent and supposed tax proclivities .
 two months after chinese government declared that sars is under control , merchants and small businesses dependent on china 's annual influx of summer students are still reeling from repercussions . estimated 1,000 students from united_states enroll in dozens of language programs each summer in beijing , shanghai and other cities . programs were canceled when sars panic peaked in apr and may .
 us military forces are preparing for what seems to be imminent assault on falluja . insurgents have set up defensive perimeter around city . military intelligence officials say 75 to 80 percent of city 's 250,000 residents have fled . top us commanders in iraq and senior bush administration officials in washington are conducting final reviews of battle plans . prime min ayad allawi tells european union leaders in brussels that window is closing on chances for peaceful settlement .
 michael_phelps -lrb- us -rrb- wins 100-meter butterfly swimming event at 2004 olympics . ian_crocker -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and andriy_serdinov -lrb- ukraine -rrb- wins bronze . gary hall jr -lrb- us -rrb- wins men 's 50-meter freestyle . duje draganja -lrb- croatia -rrb- wins silver and roland_mark_schoeman -lrb- south_africa -rrb- wins bronze .
 federal reserve raises federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks up to 1.75 percent from 1.5 percent , third rate increase in three months . increases are not expected to pose threat to pres bush 's re-election bid because consumers and businesses have felt almost no tangible impact . long-term interest rates have edged down since june as fears of inflation have receded .
 camisea project to develop peru 's natural gas fields , sharply criticized by environmental advocates , receives significant endorsement when inter-american development bank approves $ 75 million loan . loan opens door to another $ 60 million in financing that will help alliance of companies , including hunt oil co of texas , company that has close ties to bush administration . development of gas fields is led by argentina 's pluspetrol .
 love story involving couple in goryeong , south_korea , has happy ending after 58 years . man left woman in 1943 to pursue riches by working in japanese-ruled sakhalin_island , intending to stay two years . he and other koreans were prevented from leaving when soviets took over island . in 2001 , he did come home and was reunited with his love . now she , age 80 , is hospitalized and he , age 82 , visits daily to tend to her .
 recent poll by east_china_normal_university estimates that 31.4 percent of chinese 16 or older are religious , putting number at roughly 400 million people . government had estimated around 100 million believers . older chinese may have privately clung to religion through decades of official hostility . experts see social crises involving corruption and growing gap between rich and poor fostering belief .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry storm back onto campaign trail , with both sides saying that series of presidential debates had left race a tie . both candidates fly to las_vegas , where they appear an hour and half apart to trade attacks and counterattacks in one of nation 's swing states . 21 repubican governors are in las_vegas , where they will join bush in campaigning .
 amb john_danforth says bush administration has faith in un sec gen kofi_annan and does not want him to leave office in face of probe of fraud in iraq food-for-oil program . says annan 's personal integrity has not been questioned and he is not responsible for adult son , kojo , who worked for swiss company that got iraq contracts . annan gets standing ovation in general assembly and support from african leaders , prime min tony_blair and pres vladimir_putin .
 hamas official izzideen_al-sheik_khali is killed when his car explodes in damascus , syria , area heavily populated by palestinian refugees . syria and hamas officials quickly blame israel for killing , calling car bombing new phase in israeli government 's assassinations of hamas leaders . israeli government officials decline to confirm or deny charge , but israeli authorities have stepped up threats against hamas since group carried out double suicide bombing on aug 31 that killed 16 people in two buses in beersheba .
 several senior criminal prosecutors at justice_dept and top fbi officials privately criticize atty gen john_ashcroft for failing to recuse himself or appoint special prosecutor to investigate leak of cia operative 's identity . this is first sign of dissension in department and fbi as inquiry nears critical phase when ashcroft must decide whether to convene grand jury which could compel white_house officials to testify . democrats have criticized each step of inquiry as tainted by ashcroft 's relationship with white_house .
 southwest_airlines says fares will cost as little as $ 29 for one-way ticket when it begins service in philadelphia on may 9 . us airways , leading carrier out of philadelphia , is countering southwest 's entry by starting ` buy three , get one free ' promotion for customers who purchase tickets on its web site .
 cap on us work visas is creating problems of many high-tech companies in india . number of h-1b visas granted for skilled foreign professionals drops to 65,000 from 195,000 on oct_1 . american immigration lawyers ' association estimates there are some 900,000 h-1b employees in us , 35 percent to 45 percent of them from india . prasad tadiparti of india 's mindtree consulting calls situation ` logistical nightmare ' .
 campaign workers for democratic presidential candidate john_edwards in portsmouth , nh , are discouraged because polls indicate that he will get only 7 percent of vote in state primary . core crew of about dozen edwards supporters vows to continue despite polls showing their candidate far behind front-runner howard_dean , and garnering only 4 percent to 6 percent in national surveys . despite long odds , there is clearly ` love affair ' between edwards and his supporters .
 federal_bureau_of_investigation_and_central_intelligence_agency officials now say americans probing oct 2000 terrorist attack in yemen on navy destroyer cole came close to detecting sept 11 plot , interviews . say government missed significance of series of clues because some investigators believed evidence fit narrowly into case and did not have access to all data . lost opportunity involved two of eventual sept 11 hijackers , khalid_al-midhar and nawaq_alhazmi , who fell under cia suspicion early in 2000 , but were not put on watch list of foreigners to be barred from entering united_states until aug 2001 , after they were already here . chronology of events .
 damage in florida from hurricane charley could exceed $ 20 billion . losses to insurers may be $ 6 billion to $ 10 billion . most damage was done by storm surges , but most insurance policies do not cover flooding . only one in four homeowners in most likely flood areas buys limited federal flood coverage , but floridians have bought 40 percent of 4.5 million flood insurance polices sold nationwide . florida has $ 15 billion fund intended to pay most of insured losses over $ 4.5 billion .
 voters in suffolk_county elect assemblyman steve_levy as first democratic county executive in 12 years , giving democrats top seats in suffolk and nassau counties for first time since 1960 's . suffolk democrats win majorities on southold and east_hampton town councils and gain representation in brookhaven town government for first time since watergate . democrat harvey_levinson is victor over incumbent nassau_county assessor charles_o'shea and democrats hang on to narrow 10 to 9 majority in county legislature under leadership of county executive thomas_suozzi . election outcomes suggest trend toward vigorous , competitive two-party system in both counties .
 one american soldier is wounded while shopping , another is killed in ambush near najif and sfc gladimir philippe and pfc kevin_ott reportedly are missing as american soldiers come under fire again across iraq . latest attacks are similar to those carried out over last several weeks in cities north of baghdad that are strongholds of support for saddam_hussein . us secretary of defense donald_rumsfeld says attacks are being carried out by common criminals and remnants of hussein 's fedaye en saddam and baath party .
 poor box-office results for sinbad : legend of the seven seas is moving dreamworks_skg to abandon traditional-style hand-drawn animated films . film took four years to make , period in which audiences have come to prefer computer-animated films , and cost estimated $ 70 million . even studio founder jeffrey_katzenberg admits art form on which he made his reputation may be obsolete .
 thomas_d_mottola , ousted chief executive of sony_music , signs $ 40 million deal with universal_music_group to start his own record label called casablanca records . label will focus on new acts , with universal music distributing recordings . universal commits itself to putting $ 8 million a year intgo operation for five years .
 gregory d doppke , richard_lomas and andrew_young , three men who died in crash of small plane on maryland 's eastern shore , were golf buddies at mahopac_golf_club in mahopac , ny , and were on their way to north_carolina to play several rounds of golf . joe_massaro , other member of foursome , had to visit his daughter in reno and was unable to join friends in flight from westchester_county . severe thunderstorm was reported at time of crash , but it remains unclear if weather played role in crash . young photo .
 redding , conn , has authorized project that will in effect create new village within town , complete with homes , stores , offices , factories and cultural center . cost may reach $ 300 million . project will transform 55-acre gilbert_&_bennett wire mill complex , which was founded in 1818 and shut down in foreclosure in 1989 after it failed to sufficiently modernize to compete with cheap imports of wire products from asia .
 news analysis of relationship between new_york_city property tax rebates and tax increases . finance comr_martha e stark says $ 400 rebates homeowners received in last two years almost makes up for 18.5 percent overall increase in tax rates in 2003 . many city officials and tax experts admit to confusion , which arises because tax increases are not only driven by rate but also by higher assessments and shifts in relative rates among city 's four property classes .
 abc orders 12 new series for fall season , most of any network . its five new comedies and seven new dramas will be headlined by range of familiar stars including calista_flockhart , ted_danson , taye_diggs , anne_heche , chi_mcbride , david_arquette and mick_jagger . network will emphasize comedy because it does not have existing comedy hit on its schedule . nbc also unveils its fall schedule , which includes number of new dramas .
 arts briefing column . producer hal_luftig says legally blonde -- the musical , directed and choreographed by jerry_mitchell , is bound for broadway in 2006-7 season after reading next spring and regional production in fall or winter of 2005 . cancer center in dundee , scotland , designed free of charge by frank_gehry , is named british building of year by royal_fine_art_commission .
 bush administration , which once said it had enough money for military 's role in iraq through 2004 , asks republican leaders of congress to add $ 25 billion for military beginning oct 1 . lawmakers say they are not surprised and expect to comply with request , which would be added to more than $ 400 billion already sought for military uses worldwide .
 arts briefing column : actor ben_affleck says gigli , his film with jennifer_lopez , ` was n't good and we got buried . ` comments on his new film battle for shaker heights . lissadell_house , mansion in county sligo , ireland , that was childhood home of constance_gore-booth and her irish patriot family and which was featured in poems by william_butler_yeats , reportedly is bought by irish couple .
 increasing number of retirees have embarked on second careers as casino ticket writers , card dealers , even floor managers as $ 85 billion casino industry has grown in recent years . valerie_murzl , corporate vice president for human resources at station casinos , company that operates 11 casinos in and around las_vegas , says 1,500 of company 's 15,000 employees are over 50 . more than 1,200 of 10,000 employees at foxwoods in connecticut are over age 59 .
 lucent technologies expects sales to climb this quarter even after it reports its 11th consecutive quarterly loss because of continued sluggish demand from phone companies . loss narrowed to $ 264 million from $ 423 million year earlier . sales plunged 42 percent , to $ 2.08 billion , from $ 3.58 billion previous year . chief executive patricia_f_russo comments .
 health screenings of travelers entering hong_kong and rest of southeastern china are reinstituted after scientists confirm this winter 's first case of sars . guangzhou , which surrounds hong_kong on three sides , slaughters civet cats , animal used as food , that also appears to carry sars . world health organization maintains it is safe to visit hong_kong and rest of region .
 china is on course to age faster than any major country in history , as its median age soars from about 32 in 2004 to at least 44 in 2040 . united nations figures show that china will mature more in next generation than europe has over past century . it will have to grapple with same age-related fiscal , social and productivity challenges of countries with several times its per capita income . put another way , china will get old before it gets rich .
 walt disney_co will acquire pixar animation studios for $ 7.4 billion in stock . deal will make pixar chief executive steven jobs nonindependent disney director and its largest individual shareholder . move rekindles hopes for rekindling disney 's animation tradition . pixar president edwin_catmull will lead pixar and disney animation studios , reporting to disney chief executive robert_iger and walt_disney_studios chairman richard_cook .
 laura_mansnerus on politics column on criticism of new jersey political system and gov james_mcgreevey by us attorney christopher_christie , political backer of pres george_bush . focuses on impact that mcgreevey 's resignation may have on political aspirations of christie , republican , who was rumored to have his sights set on governor 's office in 2005 .
 vivendi universal and nbc division of general_electric are politely trying to move barry_diller out of picture now that nbc has agreed to vivendi 's film and television businesses . diller is tied to vivendi 's film , television and theme park businesses by rope o fintertwined relationships left over from sale of usa_networks to jean-marie messier at vivendi_two_years_ago . diller has often said he thinks vivendi owes his company interactivecorp $ 2.4 billion , and he has sued vivendi for reimbursement of certain tax liabilities . diller would like to be paid sooner rather than later . nbc and vivendi executives say diller is annoyance and potential meddler in their future plans .
 five developing countries make tentative commitments to put $ 150 laptop computers into hands of millions of students , with production in taiwan expected to begin by mid-2007 . nonprofit project one laptop per child has won over many skeptics with design by chief technologist mary_lou_jepsen which modifies conventional laptop displays , cutting screen 's manufacturing cost to $ 40 while reducing its power consumption by more than 80 percent . detractors include industry giants intel and microsoft , which are pushing alternative approaches . intel has developed $ 400 laptop aimed at schools as well as education program that focuses on teachers instead of students . microsoft chairman bill_gates , leading philanthropist for third world , questions wisdom of assuming that what is good for ` rich world ' is good for developing world , too . seymour_papert , computer scientist and educator who is adviser to one laptop per child project , argues that children given computers will ` learn how to learn ' .
 ship that drifted off mediterranean coastline for weeks , waiting for any country to welcome ashore its wayward cargo of 37 shipwrecked africans , now lies anchored at port in sicily . united_nations and vatican applied pressure to italy , and after standoff that lasted three weeks italy acquiesced and opened its port . then it arrested ship 's german captain and head of humanitarian organization on charges of aiding and abetting illegal immigration . african immigrants have been sent to detention center , awaiting expulsion . italy has turned down their requests for political asylum .
 fernando_ferrer is widely viewed as potential challenger to new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg in 2005 , but has not committed to entering race . for some democrats considering running , his decision will influence theirs . others , notably council speaker gifford_miller , comptroller william_c_thompson jr and assemblyman brian_m_mclaughlin have already amassed significant campaign funds . ferrer is currently president of drum_major_institute , public policy organization .
 introduction of apple 's iphone is result of partnership with cingular that began two year ago . details of device were unknown to phone company until introduction . maintaining secrecy was key to success . critics of device praise its innovations but say it is priced too high . google and yahoo also contribute to functionality of phone , which will compete with high-end smart phones from research in motion and palm . new phone will be available in june at apple and cingular_stores .
 american civil administrator in iraq , l paul_bremer_iii , announces new security measures at border crossings to cut down on terrorist infiltration and smuggling . crossings between iran and iraq are cut from 19 to three . restrictions will be placed on border crossings with syria in next phase of program . u-2 spy planes and e-8c surveillance aircraft will increase patrols . $ 300 million program will double iraqi border security forces , increase training and buy equipment .
 lawrence j korb op-ed article opposes proposal to move united_states military bases in western_europe , primarily germany , to eastern european countries like romania , poland and bulgaria . holds pentagon rationales of improved strategic flexibility and cost savings are spurious , and real reason may be bush administration 's desire to punish ` old europe ' for its failure to back war in iraq .
 palestinian rockets kill 3-year-old boy and man just yards from small kindergarten building in sederot , few miles from gaza_strip . deaths are first in israel caused by rocket fired from strip , and first civilian killings in israel proper by palestinians in almost three months . people of sederot have withstood three years of rocket attacks from gaza , because notoriously crude rockets fell harmlessly in field or backyards . now they are wrestling with what deaths mean for their future . they wonder whether israel 's planned withdrawal from gaza would increase their exposure to such deadly attacks or ease assaults by bringing measure of peace .
 venture capital firm sequoia_capital invested total of $ 11.5 million in youtube from november 2005 to april 2006 and may make more than 43 times that amount from google 's acquisition of youtube . its stake in youtube has been estimated at about 30 percent , which would give it value of $ 495 million . sequoia 's go-it-alone investment in youtube represents kind of aggressive move for which sequoia is known . biggest winners in $ 1.65 billion acquisition are youtube 's founders chad_hurley and steve_chen .
 executives and directors of some of nation 's largest housing development companies have sold stock at record pace this summer -lrb- building fortunes series -rrb- . insiders at 10 largest home builders have sold nearly 11 million shares , worth $ 952 million , so far this year . that is huge jump from 6.8 million , worth $ 658 million , that insiders sold during all of last year . builders have been reporting strong earnings , and their shares are trading at or near record high , but analysts and investors now wonder if home builders see something menacing on horizon .
 bureau of labor statistics report finds that in two-job households women spend about hour_day more than men caring for young children . says about 20 percent of men do some sort of housework versus 55 percent of women , and 35 percent of men cooked or washed dishes , versus 66 percent of women .
 national institutes of health , recognizing need for research and development , is giving special consideration to underfunded childhood disease spinal muscular atrophy , which effects about 1 in 6,000 children born in united_states . dr kenneth_h_fischbeck , institute 's division of neurological disorders and stroke neurogenetics chief , cites sma 's prevalence , severity and possible treatment as reasons for unprecedented attention . parents ellen_goldstein and hamilton_cain and their son owen , who suffers from sma are discussed . children with sma rarely live beyond age two .
 more than 30,000 health care workers throng mall in front of capitol , albany , to protest $ 2 billion in cuts gov george e pataki has proposed in health care programs , just a few months after their leader , dennis_rivera , gave pataki crucial support in his re-election bid . demonstration is largest in at least two decades .
 news analysis recalls gov nelson_rockefeller 's rescue of long_island railroad 40 years ago , when he invested $ 65 million of state 's money , prodded legislature to create_transportation_authority and outwitted robert_moses to win control of triborough_bridge_&_tunnel_authority 's toll revenues to subsidize regional mass transit . says system is again at financial crossroads , but state rescue is less certain this time .
 justice department opens antitrust investigation into united_airlines ' role in encouraging hostile takeover bid for regional carrier atlantic_coast_airlines it uses on east coast . probe casts cloud over united 's application for federal aid . air transportation_stabilization_board 's decision last year to reject united 's first request for assistance forced it to file for bankruptcy protection . atlantic_coast has contract to carry united passengers until 2010 but decided to start separate operation . mesa_airlines made hostile takeover bid for atlantic_coast and signed deal with united to operate its united_express flights if bid succeeded . justice department asks atlantic_coast to turn over documents related to mesa and united .
 democratic presidential candidates john_kerry , john_edwards and wesley_k_clark , at poverty forum in columbia , sc , agree that pres bush has mishandled free trade and promise not to sign another trade agreement until workers and their jobs get same protection as corporations . sen ernest_f_hollings , at hearing on us trade with china , warns bush administration that its new trade agreements with china will meet stiff resistance in congress so long as nothing is done about ` unfairness ' of chinese trade . hollings photo .
 rob_walker consumer column finds that tupperware-style home parties are still very much with us , even in an era of dual incomes and online shopping . notes direct selling assn , trade group , claims that number of people involved in this form of selling more than doubled , to 13.3 million from 6.3 million , between 1994 and 2003 . notes athome_america is one of many companies using tupperware-style sales force of women in homes of their neighbors .
 al qaeda and other terrorist organizations reportedly have intensified efforts to recruit young muslim men in united_states , europe and africa , tapping into rising anger about american campaign for war in iraq . intelligence and law enforcement officials warn invasion of iraq will produce groundswell of recruitment for groups committed to attacks in united_states , europe and israel . surge in qaeda recruitment efforts has been most visible in germany , britain , spain , italy and netherlands . investigators have increased their use of informants and bugging devices to monitor mosques and other gathering places .
 $ 1.9 billion purchase of controlling stake in thailand 's dominant telecommunications conglomerate called shin early this year by group led by singapore government 's investment arm , temasek_holdings , provoked national outrage in thailand . buying it from family of prime minister widely accused of corruption touched off extensive street protests that culminated on sept 19 in military ouster of thaksin shinawatra as thai leader . coup has thrust temasek into unusual focus . created , owned and overseen by government , it has embarked on ambitious overseas investment campaign that exceeded $ 13 billion in its latest fiscal year . thaksin is in exile . temasek has lost about $ 700 million and thai officials , including those from ministry_of_commerce , are investigating whether deal was illegal .
 yolanda_b_cuming of north_white_plains , ny , mourns her son , pfc kevin_a_cuming , who was killed in iraq on aug 21 . her grief is commingled with anger over war she does not support , indigation and blame for pres george w bush and guilt at having urged kevin to join army because he needed some discipline .
 article on ghosts that haunt houses of famous people living in connecticut . actress christine_baranski comments on ghost named barefoot charlie_hunt , actress linda_dano says 18th-century home is haunted by spirit of girl named madeline , choreographer and theater director martha_clarke says she lives with ghost of abstract expressionist arshile gorky and metropolitan museum of art deputy design director diana_salzburg says ghost lives in her 1786 litchfield home .
 dedicated cricket players in new_york , many from british-influenced caribbean areas , discuss playing and promoting sport . photos . us will field first team for international cricket champions trophy in britain this sept , first us national junior championship has been organized and new_york now has five little league teams . new_york 's first international match actually took place in 1844 , between us and canada .
 jamal_zougam , one of five men being held in connection with madrid terror attacks , was linked more than two years ago to suspected al qaeda cell operating in spain . is one of three moroccan immigrants suspected of providing logistical support to madrid bombers . is linked in both confidential and public court documents to amad eddin_barakat_yarkas -lrb- aka abu dahda -rrb- , suspected leader of spanish qaeda cell that investigators say helped prepare sept 11 attacks on new_york and washington , dc .
 pres bush is thought to have relied as much on chemistry and intuition as on policy and legal intellect in selecting nominee for supreme_court . white_house officials and others say bush , who prides himself on his instincts about people , clicked with judge_john_g_roberts and what friends call his midwestern ` regular guy ' demeanor in hourlong interview in white_house . say bush was also impressed with his record at harvard_college and harvard_law_school and his record of arguing 39 cases before supreme_court . say equally important to bush is fact that roberts is acceptable to conservatives but comes with such sterling resume and ties to washington 's establishment that democrats would find it hard to go on the attack .
 new jersey mourns death of two of its national guardsman killed in iraq when word arrives that two more members of same unit have died in separate bombing . one casualty , sgt frank_carvill , was survivor of sept 11 attacks at world trade center . specialist christopher_m_duffy , was killed alongside him . three others from state were wounded in incident .
 east lyme , conn , 34.8-square - mile shoreline town of slightly more than 18,000 people , attracts upscale residences for adults 55 and older . success of two complexes built in 1996 and 2000 with total of 158 homes has inspired developers to submit applications for 179 more units in three complexes , some of which are already approved and under construction .
 part of being irish in america is nostalgia for old sod . rich , dark dirt holds centuries of farming , famine and fighting . auld sod export co in county tipperary , via warehouse in speonk , ny , is selling 12-ounce plastic bags labeled ` official irish dirt ' . pat_burke , one of two irishmen who founded company last year to capitalize on sentimental symbolism of irish soil in america , says it has shipped $ 2 million worth to us since november , when it started its web site .
 law enforcement officials are taking systematic approach to unsolved civil rights crimes of 1950s and ` 60s , but time is running out because potential witnesses and suspects are dying off . fbi has compiled list of 51 victims in 39 cases , most of which were never investigated by bureau . one investigation has led to recent arrest of james_f_seale in connection with klan killings of black teenagers henry h dee and charles_e_moore in mississippi in 1964 .
 ebay returns to manhattan for second_year for a show-house , four-story town house on upper_east side . participants -- among them fabric designer lulu_de_kwiatkowski , traditionalist matthew_patrick_smyth and modernist shawn_henderson -- were rounded up by design veteran marian_mcevoy and given budgets of $ 8,000 to $ 22,000 with instructions that 90 percent of their rooms ' contents should come from ebay .
 article examines close ties between dwain_j_kyles , owner of e2 nightclub in chicago where 21 people died in stampede , and rev jesse_jackson . kyles , who has denied city 's contentions that troubled club was operating without license , is son of civil rights veteran rev samuel_j_kyles , close associate of rev_martin_luther_king who coordinated jackson 's presidential campaigns in 1984 and 1988 . has been prominent figure in city 's black business community for decades . his close ties with other influential black leaders discussed . jackson , who has voiced support for victims , is also supporting kyles and trying to explain his efforts to help troubled club survive . as chicago 's largest black-owned entertainment establishment , club was host to variety of social and political events for african-american elite , as well as magnet for rowdy younger set .
 officials in ontario , on behalf of its 12 million citizens , sign on as investors in stage version of j r r tolkien 's lord of the rings , which is set to open in toronto in spring . provincial government will contribute some $ 2.5 million to $ 23 million budget . other contributors include tourism toronto and air canada . canadian actors ' equity has lengthened its standard contract to allow producers better chance to recoup their investment .
 california is about to spend $ 220 million to build bigger death row in san_quentin prison . there are 641 inmates on death row in california , more than in any other state . just 10 inmates have been executed since death penalty was reinstated in 1977 . construction on new death row is scheduled to begin in sept 2005 , but there is stepped-up effort by opponents to block it . many marin_county officials want to move entire prison complex , which is located on san_francisco_bay , far away on less valuable property . county has prepared developmental plan that contemplates residential communities , bike paths , parks and transportation_center in place of prison .
 china , in move to quell criticism of its huge trade surplus with us , agrees to let big three automakers send it about 15,000 cars and trucks over next couple of years as well as more than $ 1 billion in parts from general_motors . also says it will allow gm to import cars directly , without using local partner , and gm says it is moving into auto lending business in china .
 article traces expansion of new_york 's medicaid program , on which state spends $ 12 billion per year . with state facing huge deficits , and counties chafing under weight of generous services , new_york state assn of counties is asking state to cap counties ' share and bloomberg_administration is asking state to absorb new_york_city 's entire contribution -- $ 4 billion -- to program . city also wants to apply more stringent standards to applicants to determine eligibility .
 david_m_crowe , holocaust historian and professor at elon_university in north_carolina , comments on his new book , oskar_schindler : the untold account of his life , wartime activities and the true story behind the list . book clashes sharply with idealized portrayal of schindler in thomas_keneally 's 1982 novel and steven_spielberg 's 1993 movie , schindler 's list . scholars say fresh revelations based on interviews with holocaust survivors and newly discovered papers cast schindler 's moral transformation and heroism into starker relief .
 gia kourlas article on joyce theater 's altogether different dance_festival , which has shifted away from emerging artists to established , rather than experimental , talent , as well as shortening event from three weeks to two . says exciting experimental dancers working in new_york should be included . martin_wechsler , director of programming at joyce , and choreographer keely_garfield comment .
 new_york_stock_exchange president richard_a_grasso says he makes no apologies for compensation package of almost $ 200 million , now cut by $ 48 million , and predicts he will survive controversy and serve out new contract that runs until 2007 . interview . photos . says he does not determine award and only regrets he did not take it sooner . not taking pay annually allowed grasso to accumulate money at interest rates as high as eight percent . annual pay reached peak of $ 31 million in 2001 . predecessor william_donaldson earned at most about $ 1.85 million . timeline of recent scandals tarnishing exchange reputation .
 feb open house hosted by bill and gail_mcnulty in effort to sell their soho apartment without broker turned ugly when prudential_douglas_elliman_agent_gia wang acted belligerently , refused to leave and clawed mr_mcnulty 's face when he tried to remove her from apartment . apartment shoppers continued to arrive , undeterred by blood and presence of police called by mcnulty , former new_york_times graphics editor . police say wang is still being sought for questioning . she has resigned from douglas_elliman . actress edie_falco has sold her west village town house to singer paula_cole . fifth avenue co-op board reportedly approves rupert_murdoch 's purchase of triplex_penthouse formerly owned by late_laurance_s_rockefeller for $ 44 million , highest price ever paid for manhattan apartment .
 apple computer decides to shift macintosh microprocessor business to intel_corp , longtime rival , after more than decade with ibm . chief steven p jobs says company will begin incorporating intel chips in some macintosh computers beginning next year and largely complete changeover by 2008 , address to apple_computer 's worldwide developers conference , san_francisco . apple will offer new version of its operating system for transition , macintosh os x tiger , that will run on both ibm and intel chips . immediate challenge will be to persuade apple customers to continue to buy mac computers based on ibm 's powerpc chip while they wait for intel version to arrive .
 article on next wave of young , hip lexicographers who are taking over guardianship of the major american dictionaries . erin_mckean , 33 , editor of oxford_american_dictionary , comments , interview . others include steve_kleindenler , 38 , second in command at american_heritage , grant_barrett , 34 , project editor of the historical dictionary of american slang , peter_sokolowski , 35 , associate editor at merriam-webster and jesse_sheidlower , 36 , editor at large of oxford english dictionary .
 article in series periodically observing two congressional newcomers -- rep raul_grijavla , arizona democrat , and rep candice_miller , michigan republican . grijalva , backing democrats who believe pres george_bush is trying to pack federal court with conservatives , is in awkward position of fighting to block nomination of hispanic miguel_estrada to us court of appeals for district of columbia . miller , in short speech to house , describes estrada as someone who represents mainstream american law and american values .
 analysis of further weakening of pres bush 's justification for iraq war by independent commission investigating sept 11 terrorist attacks , which questioned extent of any ties between iraq and al_qaeda . panel 's report comes on top of failure to find banned biological and chemical weapons in iraq and poll showing iraqis do not view american-led forces as liberators . official white_house strategy is to deny any real differences with commission as bush moves toward june 30 transfer of sovereignty to iraqis and seeks to turn his re-election race to other issues .
 article on plight of african migrants stranded in libya . col muammar el-qaddafi raised their hopes with talk of borderless united_states_of_africa , but few of estimated one million africans who flooded into libya found jobs . many of them have set their sights now on europe . libya until 2003 turned blind eye to movement of illegal immigrants , but libya 's relations with west have improved since then and europe is eager to stop african migration to europe . many smugglers have been arrested and getting across mediterranean has become hazardous .
 substantial number of big insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers say they will offer prescription drug coverage to medicare beneficiaries next year , defying predictions of many industry experts . risks are found acceptable because government will protect insurers against large financial losses at least in first years . bush administration estimates medicare payments to private plans for drug benefit will total $ 59 billion in 2006 and double in five years .
 fact sheet issued by white_house says pres bush 's approach on social security benefits is based on plan called ` progressive indexing ' developed by robert_c_pozen , investment company executive from boston . says progressive index indexing under pozen 's plan would solve about 70 percent of social security sovlency problem over next 75 years . plan explained .
 cnn appoints jonathan_klein , who used to be executive at cbs_news , as president of company 's domestic network . move is latest in what has been four years of executive upheaval atg network , whose once-dominant ratings position in cable news has been wiped away by surging fox_news_channel . klein succeeds princell hair as top day-to-day executive at cnn / us . klein comments .
 fidelity investments and national_securities_clearing_corp are leading effort to create clearinghouse for processing mutual fund orders , one that would give order-taking intermediaries more time to process orders while still ensuring that no orders are taken after unyielding 4 pm deadline . hope to satisfy regulators ' demand for ` hard close ' without penalizing americans who invest through 401 -lrb- k -rrb- plans that rely on intermediaries to submit orders . have been given encouraging sign by securities_and_exchange_commission . national_securities_clearing_corp , subsidary of depository trust and clearing_corp , industry-owned agency registered with sec , already handles $ 917 trillion worth of financial transactions a year .
 recent market reports show that studios and one-bedroom apartments in manhattan are increasing in value , while price increases for larger apartments are not keeping pace . studios and one-bedroom apartments , 55 percent of all sales from july to september , are up 5 percent from spring 2005 . average value of larger studios has climbed 11 percent , to $ 428,831 , and one-bedrooms now average $ 687,744 .
 article on effort by barry_carr of daimlerchrysler 's global electric motorcars subsidiary to persuade officials on shelter island to use nevs -lrb- neighborhood electric vehicles -rrb- . vehicles go no faster than 25 miles an hour , carry two or four passengers , produce no exhaust emissions and can cover 35 miles on one charge . company has been donating vehicles to several states in order to gain emission credits .
 rakhim esenov , novelist from turkmenistan whose books have been banned and who has been under house arrest for two years , becomes first writer in 20 years to personally accept freedom to write award from pen_american_center . appearance is last-minute surprise as government authorities had told esenov that he would not be allowed to leave country .
 new_york_giants ' officials and new jersey officials reach agreement on construction of 80,000-seat stadium next to its present home in meadowlands . team will pay $ 750 million to build stadium and pay state $ 6.3 million a year to state . giants agree to state must pay $ 120 million of outstanding debt on old stadium and $ 30 - to $ 40 million in infrastructure improvements .
 jennifer senior article profiles new mexico gov bill_richardson , who is being mentioned as vice-presidential possibility even though he claims he is not interested . one of country 's most prominent hispanics , richardson will chair democratic national convention and it is likely he will play role in coming election and future of party , where he has high visibility . richardson agrees with theory that democrats forget south and concentrate on picking up support in west , and successfully agitated for arizona and new mexico primaries to be held on same day .
 kim_garcia , undecided ` security mom ' in pittsburgh , is one of more than 1,500 randomly chosen voters in 17 cities participating in ` town hall ' meeting run by political scientists as ` deliberative poll ' to demonstrate that americans can transcend bitter partisan rhetoric and listen to each other . photo . project director prof james_fishkin reports undecided participants are more likely to move toward john_kerry than to george_bush .
 pope benedict_xvi names his first new cardinals , 15 in all . they include bishop joseph_zen ze-kiun of hong_kong , outspoken critic of china 's rulers . archbishop sean_patrick_o'malley of boston is also elevated . he was appointed in boston in 2004 , after sex abuse scandal there forced resignation of cardinal bernard law .
 columbia_university art history lecturer lynn_catterson , addressing university 's italian academy for advanced studies in america , suggests that laocoon , fabled ancient greek sculpture unearthed in 1506 that now resides in vatican museums in rome , may be renaissance forgery , possibly by michelangelo . other scholars , however , contend drawing of torso by michelangelo on which catterson bases her theory bears no resemblance to sculpture .
 raymond_hernandez political memo holds that us senator hillary_rodham_clinton is emerging as one of democratic party 's most vocal supporters of military activity in iraq , arguing for more troops and agreeing that saddam_hussein was at least seeking weapons of mass destruction . has also criticized president bush for not getting international support for war efforts . is first new_york senator to serve on senate_armed_services_committee . her stance surprises many who remember her anti-war activism in vietnam war era .
 white_house is expected to turn over governors_island to new_york after more than two centuries under federal control , capping eight years of negotiation . terms if agreement are undisclosed , but state is apparently paying only nominal sum . new city-state agency that will manage island is headed by randy_a_daniels , new_york 's secretary of state . speculation on possible development plans discussed .
 dr david_applebaum , who spent years helping victims of terrorist attacks in israel , is himself victim of latest bombing in jerusalem , along with his daughter . was innovator in emergency medical services during his years of dashing to bomb sites . had just returned to israel from new_york conference dealing with terror attacks , during which he gave step-by-step presentation on how major bombings are handled at hospital in israel . was in cafe in jerusalem with his daughter nava to discuss her upcoming marriage at time of suicide bombing .
 iraq makes scathing attack on united_states hours before united_nations report on weapons inspections is delivered in new_york . statement from foreign_ministry is more strident in tone and more emphatic in claiming that iraq has little else to offer united_states to head off war . foreign min naji_sabri says iraq has ` done everything possible ' to avoid threat of war and destruction by ` warmongers ' of washington and by prime min tony_blair of britain .
 it appears to have taken only 90 seconds for power problems that began in michigan and ohio to trigger doubling of demand in ontario and then massive blackout in new_york state . events turned what would have been major summer blackout in midwest into epic mess that affected tens of millions of people in largest blackout in nation 's history . a central question to be answered is what exactly happened at border of new_york and canada : whether mechanical protective devices at extremely powerful electrical connection linking two countries failed or even had chance to operate , and whether humans in charge could have done anything to anticipate or limit damage .
 architectural historian jean-louis bourgeois buys historic wood-frame building on west street off christopher street for $ 2.2 million . plans to open museum dedicated to role of water in human existence , complete with 7-story waterfall . andrea_soros_colombel , daughter of investor and philanthropist george_soros , sells 31 perry street , home to series of theater companies including new_york theater workshop , for $ 14.2 million . michael_sgourus buys 115 macdougal street , home of players theater , for $ 6.75 million from time_equities principal francis_greenburger . television writer jessica_klein and husband isaac_levenbrown buy britney_spears 's apartment in silk building at east fourth street and broadway for $ 4 million .
 bob_herbert op-ed column interviews army staff sgt eugene_simpson jr of dale_city , virginia , who is now paralzyed from waist down after having his spinal cord severed by bomb while on patrol in tikrit , iraq . simpson says to this day he can not figure out what is the purpose of american troops in iraq .
 joel_phagoo goes back to port authority of new_york and new jersey police at kennedy_international_airport to claim rubber raft confiscated after he washed up there during fishing trip in jamaica bay with his brother and cousin . boys wandered airport 's runways undetected for 75 minutes before asking shocked police for help . port authority will investigate security lapses .
 cbs replaces andrew_heyward as president of its news division with sean_mcmanus , its top sports executive . mcmanus , who is credited with reviving network 's sports division , will continue to head that department as well . changes are announced by leslie_moonves , chairman of cbs , who has openly complained about heyward 's lack of progress in pursuing goal set by moonves to change single-anchor format of cbs_evening_news . during heyward 's decade as news president , network collected numerous awards , but end of his tenure has been characterized by much internal turmoil and uncertainty .
 pres bush expresses concern about russia 's commitment to democracy at joint news conference with pres vladimir_v_putin , who appears at times visibly uncomfortable but refuses to yield . sometimes tense and awkward encounter is held in bratislava , slovakia , after two men meet privately for over hour . joint news conference was designed to portray unity on day when two sides announce agreement that could reduce potential threat of nuclear terrorism by speeding up much-delayed securing and dismantling of some of russia 's nuclear materials . sen john_kerry had criticized bush for slowness of multibillion-dollar program during presidential campaign . news conference had been built up during bush 's four-day trip across europe as standoff between him and putin over course of democracy in russia , where in recent months putin has taken steps to tighten state control over economy and stifle dissent . putin says he will not debate whether there is ` more or less democracy ' in russia .
 german court to open proceedings against deutsche_bank chief executive josef_ackermann and three other former directors of mannesmann on charges that they approved payment of improper bonuses to its executives . guilty verdict for ackermann would almost certainly force him to resign , not to mention expose him to fines and jail sentence of as much as 10 years . would also leave germany 's flagship bank leaderless at time banking industry is entering period of likely consolidation . at issue is whether ackermann and mannesmann directors violated trust of shareholders by awarding 57 million euros -lrb- $ 70 million -rrb- in severance bonuses to chief executive klaus esser and other senior managers .
 article on extensive contemporary art collection owned by robert and jane_meyerhoff , founding benefactors and major donors to national gallery of art in washington , dc . collection , housed at couple 's fitzhugh_farm in phoenix , md , will be left upon their death to national gallery . farm will be owned by robert and jane_meyerhoff foundation and complex will be open to public .
 rhythms of life begin anew as 2003 dawns in new_york_city . mayor michael_bloomberg visits cassandra_moore at bronx hospital as rochea_moore is born at stroke of midnight . two other babies , devon_billingsley and alex_macareno , vie for firstborn-in-2003 honors . other happenings around city on first day of year described .
 corporations are under pressure to appoint experienced and independent board members , but golf handicaps and club memberships still play role . two of directors named to morgan_stanley 's board last summer are members of chmn john_j_mack 's own club , golf_club of purchase in westchester_county , as are two of his recent appointees to investment_bank_'s_management_committee . most chief executives of large wall street banks belong to at least one major golf club , but according to tournament scores filed on web_site_of_us_golf_association , it appears that none of pure investment banks have more than one member of same club on their boards .
 district attorney 's office in humboldt_county , calif , accuses pacific lumber co of unfair and fraudulent business practices during negotiations four years ago that resulted in headwaters preserve , about 10,000 acres of giant redwoods that company agreed to turn into public_reserve in exchange for $ 480 million from federal and state governments . seeks to end environmentally damaging logging by company and penalize it for not revealing information during negotations that logging could create landslides and ruin water quality in streams .
 sen john_kerry , campaigning in chicago , says pres bush 's approach to iraq is gridlocked by its own ideology and its own arrogance . says he has more experience than bush in handling national security . meets with rev jesse_jackson and barack_obama , democratic nominee for senate seat in illinois , to help devise strategy to inspire african-americans to go to polls .
 profile of and interview with vanita_gupta , 2001 graduate_of_new_york_university_law_school , and a lead lawyer in tulia , texas , case in which more than tenth of town 's black population was arrested in drug sting based on uncorroborated testimony of one out-of-control undercover officer . gupta works at naacp_legal_defense and ecucational fund in new_york_city .
 sonoma_saveurs , restaurant n sonoma , calif , is spray-painted and flooded by vandals protesting serving of foie gras , fat-engorged liver of force-fed ducks and geese . gourmet cruelty , group of self-proclaimed ` duck freedom fighters , ' releases videotapes documenting what it calls animal torture at sonoma_foie gras in farmington , calif , which supplies foie gras to sonoma_saveurs , and ' rescues ' four ducks from farm . vandalism and theft are part of escalation of violence by animal rights extremists around california .
 french financial giant axa drops its offer to acquire 48 percent of axa_asia_pacific_holdings that it does not already own . says independent directors of sydney , australia-based subsidiary rejected ` final offer ' of 3.4 billion australian dollars -lrb- $ 2.47 billion -rrb- for stake . richard_allert , chairman of australian unit , tries to reassure nervous investors that his company will remain axa 's preferred vehicle for expansion in asia .
 israel and us , with two palestinian territories increasingly isolated from each other by week of warfare between rival factions , seem agreed on policy to support fatah in west_bank and squeeze_hamas in gaza_strip . idea is to concentrate western efforts and money on occupied west_bank , which palestinian pres mahmoud_abbas and his fatah faction control , in effort to make it model of new palestine that will bring gaza and radical islamic_group_hamas to terms . us and israel are reeling from collapse of fatah in gaza despite significant injections of us political and military advice and aid .
 european governments struggle to rebuild relationships with us and among themselves that have been strained by war in iraq . foreign min dominique de villepin of france says his government is re-engaging with britain as first step toward finding common ground with us . prime min jean-pierre_raffarin orders french officials not to criticize america 's conduct of war . top aides to chancellor gerhard_schroder of germany are strategizing about ways for germany to take part in postwar reconstruction . prime min tony_blair of britain is seen by some as essential mediator between us and its estranged allies .
 new_york 's 45-year-old solomon_r_guggenheim_museum , upper_east side landmark designed by frank_lloyd_wright that is plagued with cracks , leaks and corroding surfaces , will undergo major facelift . museum has raised $ 20 million from cleveland-based philanthropist and museum_board chairman peter_lewis and other trustees . museum officials say they need at least $ 5 million more and are hoping for support from city and state as well as private donations . museum will remain open during restoration , which is expected to take two years .
 minuteman project is volunteer patrol in tombstone , ariz , searching for immigrants seeking to make illegal desert crossing into united_states . project is led by chris_simcox , who accuses federal government of turning blind eye to flow of illegal immigrants . he hopes to post 1,000 volunteers across 23 miles of border . effort has angered hispanics and government of mexico , and prompted warning from pres bush against vigilante action .
 homeland security department seizes control of 43 oil wells in northwestern pennsylvania it says were financed by drug money laundered by florida_marijuana_smuggler_paul_e_hindelang in 1970 's . says it is first time government has seized oil wells in money laundering probe . hindelang has already forfeited $ 50 million in drug assets stashed in overseas accounts . wells are worth about $ 1 million .
 israeli fence along gaza 's perimeter has three crossings : erez for those going to and from israel , karni , which handles cargo and rafah on egyptian border . crossings are constant source of friction for israelis and palestinians , but they are crucial for gaza , with its population of 1.4 million crammed into area far too small to be self-sufficient . crossings are struggling to function , with hamas poised to lead palestinian authority and israel warning it could respond with even tighter security controls . israel allows 5,000 workers to cross daily , all at erez . jobs in israel are prized because they pay up to $ 40 a day . that is far more than laborer can earn in gaza .
 article on plight of football teams at bassick_high_school in bridgeport , conn . team , in one of poorest municipalities in fairfield_county , with no home field of its own , plays home games at john_f_kennedy_stadium at central_high_school and practices at city-owned went field . george_loughrey , 68 , who has been coaching team for seven years , players and mothers of players comment on difficulties team and its members face .
 article on moves by new_zealand government , tourism and film industries to prepare for post-lord of the rings future . government has approved grant program aimed at attracting more movie productions . first to qualify for grant is film version of c s lewis book the lion , the witch and the wardrobe , directed by andrew_adamson . rings director peter_jackson , new_zealand native , is also planning remake of king_kong that will be filmed entirely in new_zealand .
 ross mothers survey finds record high numbers of women still breast-feeding babies six months after giving birth . however , 30 percent of new mothers never try breast-feeding and 67 percent have quit by six months . federal preventive services task force panel , after reviewing 22 studies , recommends women take structured class . suggestions , published in annals of family medicine , stress importance of class to help with problem-solving , basic techniques and physiology of breast-feeding . personal experiences with nursing discussed .
 general motors europe chairman fritz_henderson , citing cost savings , announces that company will build mid-size opels and saabs in russelsheim , germany , rather than trollhattan , sweden . says it will build new cadillac for european market in trollhattan and maintain production of current saab models . analysts say , with cadillac 's success in europe not assured , swedish plant faces murky future .
 white_house letter . harriet_e_miers has returned to work at white_house , and those working with her claim she shows no signs of having weathered 24 brutal days as justice sandra day o'connor 's potential successor on supreme_court . say she brought sardonic sense of humor to her coaching of judge samuel a alito jr on night before pres bush announced his appointment .
 former pres bill clinton appears with gov gray_davis at church in los_angeles to plead case against recall of davis . clinton , who has been privately advising davis on strategy , delivers impassioned argument against recall . is only first of national democratic figures who will be in state this week to fight recall and motivate core democratic constituencies to vote .
 army_corps_of_engineers awards contract worth up to $ 385 million for building temporary immigration detention centers to kellogg_brown_&_root , halliburton subsidiary that has been criticized for overcharging pentagon for its work in iraq . kbr would build centers for homeland security dept . it had similar contract with immigration agencies from 2000 to last year . immigration and customs enforcement says centers would be built only in emergency .
 three spacecraft are currently on way to mars and all three plan to search surface of planet for signs of life . beagle 2 , european space agency craft , is scheduled to arrive christmas morning and land on surface of isidis_planitia , broad basin . two american robotic rovers are due to land in january with spirit scheduled to touch down near center of gusev crater and opportunity to land at meridiani_planum . two-thirds of all flights to mars have failed . successful missions of two viking spacecraft in 1976 and mars pathfinder in 1997 detailed . spirit and opportunity missions discussed .
 powerful car bomb explodes outside shiite shrine of imam ali in najaf , iraq , killing as many as 95 people , including ayatollah_muhammad_bakr_al-hakim , one of four clerics who hold sway over iraq 's shiite muslim faithful and long a leader of opposition to saddam_hussein . attack deals blow to american efforts to establish order in iraq . suspicion falls on baath party supporters , former members of hussein 's security services and rival shiite groups .
 new_york_stock_exchange says it will acquire archipelago , leading electronic trading system , in deal that allows exchange to become public company but casts doubt on its 213-year-old system of auction trading . deal , under which nyse and archipelago will merge to form nyse group , will give holders_of_exchange 's 1,366 seats $ 400 million in cash and 70 percent of shares of combined publicly traded company . more important , it will enable nyse to expand its ability to handle trades electronically , staving off challenges from traditional rival nasdaq and global competitors like euronext and deutsche_borse . merger seen as most significant acknowledgement yet that big_board 's traditional market , drivenby human traders , may not be able to survive in era increasingly dominated by instantaneous trades .
 article on bay street theater , nonprofit theater in sag_harbor , ny , which this spring will mark its 15th season . theater was founded by actors steve_hamilton , his wife emma_walton and sybil_christopher . it is long_island 's only all-professional theater that produces shows from scratch rather than booking from road .
 pentagon analysts are putting finishing touches on list of recommendations on which of 425 domestic military bases should be closed to save billions of dollars and make military more agile and responsive to security threats , while state officials rush to save their installations , which provide thousands of jobs and billions of dollars to local economies . defense sec_donald_h_rumsfeld will submit list to independent review commission by may 16 , and pres bush and congress must accept or reject list by nov 7 .
 high-ranking jordanian security officers say abu_musab_al-zarqawi recruited about 300 people who went to iraq for terrorist training before he sent them back to their home countries to await orders . jordan 's assessment is first to offer firm numbers to support scattered reports of iraq as terrorist training ground . authorities across europe have identified dozens of young militant muslim men who left or tried to leave to fight in iraq .
 study based on food_and_drug_administration records from last 10 years finds that about 164,000 emergency external heart defibrillators , or about 20 percent of units sold during period , were subject to agency recall or alert . also finds that fda received 370 reports of deaths in which defibrillators or critical components malfunctioned during attempts to resuscitate patients in cardiac arrest .
 article on new jersey sen william_gormley , republican from atlantic_county who has returned to spotlight by taking on task of opposing gov james_mcgreevey . gormley , in recent weeks , has successfully stymied attempt to legalize video lottery machines at racetracks and publicly questioned mcgreevey 's nomination of charles_kushner as head of port authority .
 justice_dept_study_finds_nation 's prison population grew 26 percent last year , largest increase since 1999 , despite small decline in serious crime . finds total of 2,166,260 americans in local jails , state and federal prisons and juvenile detention facilities . finds 10.4 percent of black men ages 25 to 29 are in prison , as are 2.4 percent of hispanic men and 1.2 percent of white men in same age group . report finds large racial disparity has not increased in past decade . other findings detailed .
 gov george e pataki and mayor_michael_r_bloomberg will announce recipients of more than $ 27 million in federal grants to 63 arts and civic organizations . grants will be funneled through lower manhattan_development_corp with goal of reviving cultural activity in downtown manhattan . some downtown arts groups have repeatedly expressed frustration over time taken for corporation to make good on its 2002 pledge to help cultural institutions affected by sept 11 terrorist attack .
 unions representing thailand 's public-sector employees plan to use huge may day rally to call for general strike against plans by prime min thaksin_shinawatra to privatize part of national_electric_utility_electricity_generating_authority of thailand . thaksin has delayed sale indefinitely in wake of relentless protests over last two months . unions are trying to force thaksin to cancel sale altogether , snad some union members are already staging limited walkouts .
 new_orleans museum of art is marking 200th anniversary of louisiana purchase with ambitious show celebrating french-american friendship . laura_bush is honorary chairwoman of show 's organizing committee . show has taken on what curator victoria_e_cooke calls ` an unexpected relevance ' now that friendship is in tatters afer france 's refusal to support united states-led invasion of iraq .
 peter_applebome column on special needs bill passed in congress to allow widow and children of waqar hasan to stay in united_states . hasan was pakistani immigrant shot to death in his dallas convenience store by mark_anthony_stroman shortly after sept 11 attacks . planned to bring his family to dallas from milltown , nj , but after his death they faced deportation because they were in country on his visa . family was aided by rep rush d holt of new jersey .
 protracted dispute between farrell family and ventura_county harbor department over renewing lease for family 's channel islands_marina , oxnard , calif , could result in eviction of some 500 boat owners when lease expires aug 31 . farrells , who want county to buy them out for $ 3.2 million , are threatening to raze docks . harbor director lyn_krieger scores use of boaters as bargaining tool . pledges to try to find berths for displaced boats .
 article on partnerships being formed by municipalities , developers and non-profit groups to restore and reuse historic buildings in yonkers , ny . developer gary_flocco and museum of sound recording co-founders bernard_fox and dan_gaydos are working with city to turn former boyce_thompson_institute_for_plant_research_into_museum 's headquarters and main branch . tara_circle , which preserves and promotes irish_heritage , is restoring adler_manor , boyce_thompson 's former residence , and is renting it out as movie set .
 profile of and interview with karyn_malinowski , equine researcher , dean of outreach and extension programs at rutgers_university , founding director of its equine_science_center and harness racer who is outspoken advocate for new_jersey_horse industry . malinowski says state 's horse industry , despite having assets of $ 3.2 billion , employing 6,000 people and generating $ 698 million in annual revenue , excluding parimutuel betting , is endangered as result of loss of racehorse breeding farms .
 fatal clashes with shadowy enemy continue for american soldiers stationed in afghanistan . guerrilla attacks have killed five american and four afghan soldiers along border with pakistan in last eight weeks . in series of strikes , pro-taliban fighters launch missiles , plant mines and mount fierce ambushes against american forces within miles of pakistan border , and then are seen retreating toward pakistan . american officer notes difficulty for pakistan of sealing off such mountainous terrain . battlefield is swath of dozens of miles of arid plateau in eastern afghanistan , lined by hills and mountains to east and west .
 kenya estimates 2,000 people are killed in road accidents each year . fatality rate is about 55 deaths per 10,000 motor vehicles , while us rate is two deaths per 10,000 vehicles . kenya spends $ 76 million each year to care for accident victims . leading advocate of new safer driving program is mary_mwangangi , traffic commandant of kenya 's police department . mwangangi broke both arms and both legs in collision with speeding truck in 2003 .
 jersey footlights column : exhibits of works created by artists with hiv and posters by chicano graphic artists open at jersey_city_museum . artist carol_stronghilos will hold class on meaning of contemporary art at old church cultural center in demarest . short films ecstasy and electronica and breaking the silence , produced in ned_eckhardt 's television documentary class at rowan_university , garner prizes at 2002 communicator awards .
 audacious solo flight around world -- first without stops or refueling -- ends where it began , salina , kan , 67 hours after takeoff . pilot steve_fossett touches down his globalflyer , its 13 fuel tanks nearly empty . trip also seen as test of human endurance . fossett , 60-year-old investment executive , says he did not sleep for first 24 hours , had only few catnaps for rest of trip and subsisted on diet milkshakes . project was bankrolled by sir richard_branson , airline magnate .
 general motors is set to unveil latest hydrogen car prototype , called sequel , at north_american_international auto show in detroit . environmentalists see car as cover for gm 's laggard performance on emissions and fuel economy . gm defends its efforts . says it has been able to double range of fuel cell vehicles in less than three years , to point that sequel can travel 300 miles before refueling , making it first hydrogen protype that can go as far between fill-ups as conventional car .
 report by center for public integrity shows advocacy groups supporting sen john_kerry 's presidential bid outspent those supporting pres bush by more than three to one . groups , known as 527 committees , spent record $ 550.6 million in all races in 2004 election cycle , reflecting changing landscape of campaign finance since soft money donations wre banned in 2002 .
 dan_barry about new_york column notes that this year 's feast of san_gennaro offers nostalgic treat for people longing for old days , when wiseguys preened on streets before passing tourists . says one vendor is perry_criscitelli , restaurant owner whose name was mentioned repeatedly at mob trial this summer in brooklyn .
 japan 's foremost real estate developer , minoru_mori , has spent last five years trying to build world 's tallest building , in shanghai . delay resulted in building being surpassed even before it could be built , by new skyscraper in taipei . developers of shanghai building and its taiwan rival each claim title as world 's tallest , but their one-upmanship will soon be rendered moot by 2,300-foot structure under construction in dubai .
 revelations of intelligence failures on eve of sept 11 attacks echo turf battles between cia and fbi that began even before cia was founded after world war ii , when j edgar_hoover feuded with gen william_donovan over plan for peacetime spy service . battles are far more civilized under current-day chiefs george_tenet and robert_mueller .
 metropolitan museum of art will soon replace its first-floor dining room with one beneath medieval sculpture hall . it will seat 440 diners and serve 500,000 diners a year provided by restaurants associates . jayson_brown , formerly chef at conde_nast_cafeteria , will be chef . there will also be 130-seat restaurant with waiter service on first floor , the petrie_court . yet another , american_wing_cafe , will open in 2004 .
 profile of david_lee and jamison properties , real estate investment and management company he started in los_angeles 10 years ago to make tax-deferred investments for himself and eight other korean immigrant doctors and dentists . jamison buys and manages real estate for 100 investors -- 90 percent of them korean . controls 20 million square feet of space worth $ 3 billion , making jamison largest owner of commercial property in los_angeles_county .
 romarr_gipson , age 15 , and his older stepbrother roman foreman are charged in shooting in which clifton_smith and another man were wounded in calumet_park , ill . gipson is remembered as youngest child prosecuted in united_states for murder in 1998 death of little girl . charges were eventually dropped and family won $ 2 million settlement in suit that asserted gipson was framed and irreparably damaged by arrest . authorities say 1998 incident is not connected to current charges .
 article on contentious face-off between producers michael_mann and charles_evans jr over who can collect any prizes won by movie the aviator . under rules of academy of motion picture arts and sciences , only three producers can receive oscar for film named best picture . graham_king , mann , evans and sandy_climan are listed as producers in screen credits . producers guild of america has chosen to recognize only mann and king . evans comments , interview .
 officials at columbia_university are moving ahead with push to raise unprecedented $ 4 billion over seven years . university of virginia plans $ 3 billion drive , and new_york_university is in midst of $ 2.5 billion drive . efforts are sign of fierce competition to improve rankings and images , attract students and grab star faculty members . columbia has endowment of about $ 5.2 billion , far behind harvard 's $ 25.5 billion .
 methamphetamine manufacture and use imposes great strain on rural police departments , as seen in lovell , wyo , where 70 people have been convicted of buying or selling methamphetamine , with more arrests expected soon . drug use has fallen 23 percent in cities from 1995 to 2002 , but rose 21 percent in rural counties , for reasons not entirely clear but seemingly related to education , income and ease of drug manufacture .
 sen john_kerry scoops up scores more delegates in four southern primaries and campaigns in illinois , charging that pres bush offers not steady but stubborn leadership that has led nation in wrong direction . photos . kerry gets 77 percent of votes in florida , 69 percent in louisiana , 78 percent in mississippi and 66 percent in texas -lrb- incomplete tallies -rrb- .
 north and south_korea agree to resume high-level talks in seoul on nuclear crisis . north korea rejects signals by bush administration that it is open to dialogue , but analysts say statement contains signals that north might be positioning itself for negotiations . south_korea 's departing president kim_dae_jung cancels meeting with japan 's foreign minister , yoriko_kawaguchi , because of visit that prime min junichiro_koizumi made to shinto war memorial , symbol of japan 's wartime military imperialism .
 report to congress by special inspector general for iraq reconstruction describes some progress but also array of projects that have gone awry . with more than 93 percent of $ 30 billion fund now committed to specific projects , it could become increasingly difficult to solve problems that are thwarting reconstruction efforts . report also notes more than 400 civilian contractors and other workers involved in reconstruction have been killed in iraq since beginning of war .
 investigators will exhume body of helen_dean , who died after breast cancer surgery at new_jersey_hospital in 1993 . dean 's former nurse charles_cullen , who has admitted to killing 30 to 40 of his patients over 14 years , is suspected of having given her unauthorized injection that killed her . investigators expect to exhume more bodies .
 new_york_city leadership academy will offer bonuses and moving expenses to 40 principals from other districts if they relocate to city schools . budgets $ 2.2 million over three years for recruiting . hopes to raise $ 75 million over three years for its yearlong program that trains aspiring principals and other projects . betsy_gotbaum , city 's public advocate , presses education department to release leadership academy 's financial information .
 mekbeb abebe_welde , cabdriver in addis_ababa , claims he is son born out of wedlock to ethiopia 's fallen emperor , haile selassie . it is family lore more than anything else that abebe offers as evidence of his blood ties . his mother , almaz_tadesse_goshu , was one of emperor 's many servants . military ousted haile selassie in 1974 , and he was killed following year in basement of one of his palaces . abebe photo .
 article on new housing at fort_stewart , ga , army base , built by team led by gmh_communities_trust . says housing program was established after defense_department concluded that about 60 percent of housing it owned was inadequate and that it would take 30 years and at least $ 20 billion for government to rebuild and renovate by itself . operating costs come out of service member 's housing allowance , which is based on rank , location and dependents and is often deposited directly with company .
 sen barack_obama 's relationship with former patron_antoin_rezko has become problematic for him on presidential campaign trail because rezko was indicted in 2006 on charges of business fraud and influence peddling . obama has been asked questions about land deal with rezko 's wife rita and about other ties to rezko . obama has given to charity more than $ 21,000 in donations that his illinois_senate campaign received from rezko_associates now linked to federal inquiries . says he never did any favors for rezko and there is no sign that he did anything improper . rezko raised $ 150,000 for obama over years and was once powerful figure in illinois .
 frank_stanton , central figure in development of television broadcasting in united_states as president of cbs for nearly three decades , dies at age of 98 . from 1946 to 1973 , he and william_s_paley operated as probably greatest team in history of broadcasting , making cbs , for a time , most powerful communications company in world , and most prestigious . detailed examination of his career .
 inflationary pressures are increasing in china 's rapidly growing economy , with new data from people 's bank of china showing companies paid rising prices in march to buy wide range of commodities and industrial products . corporate goods price index rose 8.3 percent in march compared with year earlier . consumer price index was only up 2.1 percent in february . producer price index was up 3.5 percent .
 city university_of_new_york plans to spend $ 15 million to restore former home of eleanor and franklin_roosevelt to house_public_policy_institute concerned with social and humanitarian issues . house was commissioned by sara_delano_roosevelt as gift for franklin and eleanor with precondition that she live next door in mirror-image house . photos . floor plan .
 progress has stalled in mississippi and several other southern states on reducing infant death . setbacks raise questions about impact of cuts in welfare and medicaid and of poor access to doctors . many doctors also cite growing epidemics of obesity , diabetes and hypertension among potential mothers . mississippi rate rose from 9.7 deaths by age one per 1000 births in 2004 to 11.4 deaths in 2005 . rate for blacks jumped to 17 deaths per 1000 births in 2005 from 14.2 deaths in 2004 . rate was much lower for whites .
 international longevity center-usa reports that about 17.1 percent of new yorkers over 65 live below poverty line , up from 16.5 percent in 1990 . 34.5 percent must live on income 25 percent above poverty line -- $ 8,259 for single person . advocates fear that weak economy , rising number of poor immigrants and higher cost of living will make things worse of city 's elderly . women , who statistically live six years longer than men , are twice as likely to be poor . anna_berroa , 68-year-old queens woman , tells about loss of prospect of comfortable old age and trying to survive on $ 8,136 from social security .
 the hunt column on allison_ehrlich 's search for affordable apartment after unexpectedly losing lease on condominium she had been renting for two years . found studio in dorchester towers on west 68th street for $ 1,800 a month . lease , however , is for only two years and ehrlich feels ` lingering uncertainty ' of being tenant at mercy of owner .
 microsoft reaches $ 536 million antitrust settlement with novell and agreement with computer_and_communications_industry_association that has long fought microsoft on antitrust issues in us and europe . microsoft hails agreements as culmination of its 18-month , multibillion-dollar campaign to settle antitrust conflicts . settlements suggest united_states government and most of computer industry have moved beyond their decade-long pursuit of company for antitrust violations . bradford_l_smith , microsoft 's general counsel , comments .
 marilyn_nelson , connecticut poet laureate , has purchased big_house and six acres in east_haddam , conn , and plans to open it as poets ' retreat named soul mountain . retreat will have financial backing from university_of_connecticut , which will require that it be open to poets of all colors and ethnicities . nelson is tryng to come up with money needed so that colony will be reserved in summer for african-american poets .
 nepal has been holding off-and-on peace negotiations with maoist guerrillas during unsteady six-month ceasefire . two years ago country was shaken when royal family was all but wiped out in murky attack that was offically attributed to crown prince dipendra , who also died . every-shifting struggle in nepal involves three power centers : hindu_monarchy , far weaker political parties , and maoists . some politicians worry that king_gyanendra will make deal with maoist rebels . united_states , britain and india , fearing instability in volatile corner of world , appear to be backing king with aid and support .
 residents of brooklyn , ny , neighborhoods around planned atlantic yards development project split over effect of potential reduction of project by developer forest city ratner , with some saying reduction does not matter as long as affordable housing is not cut . reduction of 500,000 to 700,000 square feet in 8.7 million-square-foot project is being considered .
 federal judge_barbara s jones upholds new_york_city 's refusal to grant parade permit to antiwar demonstrators to march past united_nations complex or anywhere else in manhattan . says organizers will have to settle for stationary rally five blocks north of complex . judge holds denial of permit is not violation of first amendment rights and says city offers compelling reasons for not being able to guarantee safety of marchers or of united_nations complex , where all demonstrations have been banned since sept 11 terrorist attack . protest organizer united_for_peace_and_justice assails decision and new_york_civil_liberties_union files appeal .
 gen paul_j_kern , army 's chief logistician , warns that army is wearing out equipment in iraq and afghanistan ten times faster than in peacetime . crippling shortages have been avoided , but supply system is just keeping pace with demands as attacks on convoys in iraq cut flow of supplies to 70 percent of capacity . suggests army make permanent recent temporary increase of 30,000 soldiers if current supply levels are to be sustained .
 most expensive misjudgment in gov john_rowland 's checkered administration in connecticut is failed deal with enron that cost state $ 220 million and is subject of federal and state probes , including one by legislative panel considering impeachment . suit filed by new hartford alleges that deal was one way that state trash authority was used to reward rowland and associates . atty gen richard_blumenthal says supposed deal to burn trash to generate electricity was illegal , unsecured loan to company desperate for cash . residents in 70 communities served by authority are now paying higher bills to make up loss . quasi-public connecticut_resources_recovery_authority , run by rowland aide peter_ellef , paid out large sums in questionable deals with companies and politically connected figures like lobbyist linda_kowalski . chronology of scheme involving enron , trash authority and connecticut light and power .
 republicans say connecticut senatorial election pitting democrat ned_lamont against sen joseph_lieberman running as independent could hinder democratic efforts to unseat incumbent republicans nancy_l_johnson , christopher_shays and rob_simmons . nearly any scenario for democrats to gain 15 seats necessary to take control of house includes taking at least one of those seats . rep rahm_emanuel , chairman of democratic_congressional_campaign_committee , takes opposite view , saying turnout in primary shows highly motivated democratic electorate .
 baseball notebook discusses boston_red_sox_center fielder johnny_damon , who will likely be sidelined for first few games of american league championship series against new_york_yankees because of concussion sustained in game 5 of american_league division series . yankees manager joe_torre does not announce lineup changes for game 1 of alcs .
 neutron star sgr 1806-20 flared in december , outshining rest of milky way 's stars and producing more energy in 0.2 seconds than sun does in 100,000 to 200,000 years . gamma ray burst was invisible to human eye , but registered on 15 spacecrafts , including nasa 's new swift satellite . sgr 1806-20 is one of about 10 unusual neutron stars known as magnetars . seems to be still intact after burst .
 article on variables that may impact connecticut 's republican gov m jodi_rell 's $ 31.1 billion 2-year budget proposal , including initial criticism by state democratic leaders . plan would raise taxes and cut spending to help offset projected $ 1.2 billion deficit in 2006 and projected $ 1.5 billion deficit in 2007 . legislative committees are expected to move forward with their own agendas and rell 's office is seeking collaborative , flexible approach .
 british prime min tony_blair says saddam_hussein plans to damage muslim shrines in iraq and pin responsibility for descration on allied troops . delivers warning to british parliament , but real audience for his message is britain 's sizeable arab press and muslims around world . iraqi information min muhammad said al-sahhaf , at almost same hour , tells news conference in baghdad that allied forces are trying to destroy mosques in karbala and najaf .
 russian arms expo 2004 in nizhny_tagil showcases russian armament . rosoboronexport , state exporter , says sales exceeded $ 5.07 billion in 2003 . us made 41.9 percent of international arms sales from 1999 to 2002 , to russia 's 25.5 percent . russia has recovered from slump through marketing and high-profile management , drawing on cold war reputation and maintenance contracts for older hardware . main sales are in aircraft , then naval vessels , with china and india as principal clients .
 supervisor linda_cooper of yorktown , ny , thwarts westchester_county 's plan to sell 9.17 acres on route 202 to curry_corp by refusing to waive town 's right to buy land for $ 1 if it agrees to use it in perpetuity for park and municipal recreation purposes . curry , auto dealership that currently leases land , was willing to pay county $ 2.5 million for property . county withdraws offer to curry and weighs retaliation against tarrytown .
 democrats say they are prepared to move on package of legislation and rules changes in first 100 hours congress is in session next year , should they take control of house or senate . they promise to pursue broader long-term program that touches on national security , health_care , employment , energy and education . rep nancy_pelosi , minority leader who would become speaker in democratic-controlled house , has outlined plan to move quickly on pet democratic initiatives if her party holds marjority .
 article profiles maher_arar , who was detained on circumstantial evidence at kennedy_airport in 2002 , and then deported to syria , where he was locked in squalor and tortured for year . arar holds dual canadian and syrian citizenship , but had not lived in syria for 16 years . american officials insist he has ties to al qaeda in canada , though he has never been charged with anything . his plight has become very public since his return to canada , though he fears his life and career are ruined because he has been branded terrorist .
 united_states fails to persuade international atomic energy agency that it should refer iran 's suspect nuclear program to united_nations_security_council . iaea will call for iran to stop uranium enrichment and clear up remaining questions by nov 25 . britain , france and germany favor soft approach , but us fears that centrifuges for enriching uranium to power reactor could quickly be converted for making weapons-grade uranium .
 louis uchitelle column on market forces that keep people in low-wage jobs . notes 20 percent of work force , 26 million people , earn $ 8.23 an hour or less . says training is way up wage ladder , but employers of low-wage workers seldom offer it or give those workers time away from daily tasks . suggests lifting minimum wage , now set at $ 5.15 an hour , to $ 7.08 , equivalent of what it was at its peak in 1968 , adjusted for inflation .
 article on douglas_forrester , millionaire businessman and new jersey gubernatorial hopeful who is facing sen jon_corzine in republican primary . forrester , exuding confidence , is certain to face tough challenge from former jersey city mayor bret_schundler . whoever captures republican nomination will face what is considered lopsided contest against corzine , popular democrat with no primary opponents and limitless campaign funds .
 iran reasserts its right to retain 20 centrifuges for enriching uranium for research purposes , dashing hopes of britain , germany and france that they had negotiated compromise that would avoid confrontation in united_nations . there is still hope that iran might agree verbally to yield on centrifuges , although perhaps not in writing . united_states_believes iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons .
 irish drug company elan 's sale of $ 850 million worth of drugs and other assets to king_pharmaceuticals may be in jeopardy . king says it has ` serious concerns ' about consummating deal because federal_trade_commission investigation concerning elan 's muscle relaxant drug skelaxin and insomnia drug sonata . elan 's shareholders approve sale in special meeting , dublin . elan chairman dr garo h armen comments .
 bigger stadiums and better training facilities are no longer enough to attract some of most talented football prospects . competition to create top athletic program now extends to efforts that help ensure that players survive in class . louisiana_state_university , perennial championship contender , spent $ 15 million to build academic center for athletes . university_of_georgia , another top-10 football program , built new facility for $ 7 million . temple_university , home to one of nation 's worst football programs , increased academic support budget for athletes by 34 percent in aftermath of poor academic performance that led to scholarship losses . all of nation 's more than 100 major college athletic departments employ some type of academic support program . national collegiate_athletic_assn says division 1 athletic departments spend at least $ 150 million annually on such programs .
 article profiles dancer richard move . his work the show -lrb- achilles heels -rrb- will make its new_york debut at the kitchen on apr_27 . he will embody martha_graham at her company 's scheduled celebration of its 80th anniversary at skirball center on apr_18 , where he will perform graham monologue and reconstruction of 1965 graham duet part real , part dream . complex relationship between move and martha_grahamm dance company discussed .
 analysis of new economic agenda in second bush administration . says one goal is expected to aim for fundamental overhaul of income tax , likely in direction of system that lessens even further taxation of investment income . other goal is to push for partial privatization of social security that could eventually reduce costs but require borrowing more than $ 2 trillion over next two decades . holds ballooning budget deficits , which could total $ 5 trillion over next 10 years if bush succeeds in making his tax cuts permanent , could constrain bush 's choices far more than they have in first term .
 escape artist and daredevil david_blaine submerges himself in water-filled plastic bubble in plaza at lincoln_center in new_york_city . intends to stay seven days in tank before locking himself in chains and trying to escape while holding his breath for world record of 8 minutes and 58 seconds . new yorkers are generally supportive of blaine , but some criticize lincoln center for allowing stunt , which is being filmed and will be aired on abc_network .
 john_tierney article holds that if you look at national map showing how each county voted in 2004 presidential election , you will see mostly red expanse except for blue democratic clusters along atlantic and pacific oceans , great_lakes , gulf_of mexico , mississippi and other rivers . says if you look at california , you will see mostly red state , with democrats concentrated along coast while republicans dominate inland counties .
 col lawrence_stutzrem , who supervised air combat in afghanistan , testifies that two f-16 pilots ignored series of standing orders intended to prevent innocent deaths when they dropped 500-pound bomb on squad of canadian soldiers near kandahar_airport in april 2002 , killing four and wounding eight , military hearing on whether majors harry_schmidt and william_umbach should be court-martialed on charges of involuntary manslaughter , aggravated assault and dereliction of duty . several canadian survivors of bombing also testify .
 sen john_kerry says he has raised $ 7 million during first_three_months_of_year in his campaign for democratic presidential nomination , falling short of $ 7.4 million taken in by sen john_edwards . sen joseph_i_lieberman has collected only $ 3 million despite being most widely known candidate and having strong support from jews .
 1986 law requiring presidential foundations to set up endowments for their libraries has done little to ease burden on taxpayers . george h w bush library in texas costs over $ 3 million a year to operate but endowment produces less than $ 200,000 , endowment for clinton library would pay about $ 300,000 of more than $ 4 million in annual costs , while presidential libraries under federal control together cost nearly $ 42 million to run last year . reasons range from low interest rates to increasing grandness of scale .
 army 's fourth infantry division received its deployment orders 66 days ago , but division 's 16,500 soldiers are only now shipping out . its send-off represents important reinforcement of what remains relatively lean american-led ground force in iraq . division was to have landed in turkey , but has been rerouted to kuwait . there , they will meet third armored cavalry regiment , to form task force ironhorse , which will add more than 30,000 more soldiers to iraq to join fighting or in postwar peace .
 betsy_gotbaum wins democracy primary for public advocate , assuring her re-election since she faces no republican opponent in november . wins with about 48 percent of vote . outpolls second-place finisher , norman_siegel , by about 18 percentage points . michael e brown finishes third . andrew_rasiej , who raised about $ 1 million , comes in fourth .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg says proposal from gov eliot spitzer to cut city 's annual state aid by $ 327.9 million would do irreversible damage to city 's budget . says he is grateful for proposed increase in education funding , but that city still contributes 48.6 percent of state tax revenues and pays $ 11 billion more to state than it receives in aid each year . some of bloomberg 's requests to legislature as budget debate begins highlighted .
 north pole environmental observatory is in fourth year of attempting to establish year-round record of environmental conditions in ever shifting arctic ice . project leader dr jamie_morison , university_of_washington_oceanographer , and 14 colleagues spend three weeks per year braving extreme weather to retrieve and replace necessary monitoring equipment . reasons why north pole has been studied less than south pole discussed . instruments strung from sea ice surface 2.6 miles down to sea floor provide clues to changes some scientists link to global warming .
 time warner posts solid second-quarter earnings as america online , long its most troubled operation , shows continued signs of recovery . total revenue rose 9.7 percent , to $ 10.89 billion , from $ 9.92 billion in period year earlier . net income fell to $ 777 million from $ 1.06 billion in period year ago . chief executive richard_d_parsons says he still faces concern about its cable unit .
 wolfgang puck worldwide asks retailers including safeway and kroger to pull self-heating latte drink marketed under wolfgang puck name off store shelves after reports of cans exploding , melting or overheating . technology developed by ontech_delaware uses chemical reaction to heat contents of can within six to eight minutes . ontech says wp beverage partners owes $ 1 million for terminating its contract for wolfgang puck products .
 royal coroner michael_burgess opens long-delayed formal inquiry into 1997 deaths of princess diana and emad mohamed al-fayed in car crash in paris . says he will consider including various conspiracy theories . inquest , routine when british citizens die violently abroad and are buried back home , has been held up by french legalities . burgess says he will need at least one year to examine material . daily mirror reports that letter reportedly written by diana six months before death expressed fears for her life .
 justice dept is examining involvement of central_intelligence_agency officers and contract employees in three suspicious deaths of detainees , two in iraq and one in afghanistan . cia official confirms probe but refuses to name victims or provide details on grounds that cases are under investigation by agency 's inspector general , who is sharing investigative findings with justice_dept . justice_dept_inquiry_means_cia employees or contractors may be prosecuted in civilian courts .
 south and north koreas have high hopes for kaesong industrial park in kaesong , north_korea . plan is for kaesong to expand over next 20 years until it spreads over 25 square miles . about 130 south korean companies are already on waiting list to open factories there , and it is expected eventually to draw billions of dollars in investments and employ 730,000 north_koreans and 100,000 south_koreans in more than 1,000 south korean companies .
 new_york_city_industrial_development_agency authorizes developer larry_silverstein to borrow extra $ 75 million through tax-exempt liberty bonds for his $ 1.355 billion 7 world trade center project . silverstein won preliminary approval two years ago for $ 400 million but returned to agency facing higher costs and lower insurance payout than he expected .
 humayun_khan , pakistani businessman who has been linked to illegal export from united_states to pakistan of high-seed switches that can be used as triggers for nuclear weapons , has supplied pakistan 's military with equipment and technology for last_20_years . american law enforcement officials say khan sent voluminous e-mails requesting trigger switches to asher_karni , israeli businessman arrested in denver on jan 1 and charged with illegally exporting sophisticated switches to pakistan by way of south_africa . khan insists he has not been involved in smuggling american-made switches to pakistan .
 letters from mitchell_krieger , mark_l_mosley , monica_bauer and mark_w_fox criticize bush administration for backing away from key recommendations of iraq study group . letters from michael_accordino , jeremy_paley and johannes_m_heine respond to paul_krugman dec 8 op-ed praising famous people who warned against invading iraq . richard rainey letter supports thomas_l_friedman dec 8 op-ed urging us to set firm withdrawal date .
 wal-mart stores agrees to pay $ 135,540 to settle federal charges that it violated child labor laws in connecticut , arkansas and new_hampshire . labor dept officials say most of 24 violations covered by settlement involved workers under age 18 operating dangerous machinery . rep george_miller of california and some labor dept investigators criticize settlement because it promises to give wal-mart 15 days notice before department can investigate .
 hartford , center of white-collar insurance empire in 1950 's , now has greatest percentage of hispanic residents of any major city north of florida and east of mississippi . hispanics now account for more than 40 percent of city 's population , and more than half of hartford 's schoolchildren are hispanic . latinization of hartford , while not universally embraced , took high-profile turn with election of eddie_a_perez as mayor in 2002 . perez is new_york_city native of puerto_rican_heritage . perez 's confidential secretary , as well as city 's corporation counsel and two city council members are all native spanish speakers .
 center for health communication at harvard_school_of_public_health begins effort that includes advertising , events , publication of book and public relations campaign , all aimed at volunteerism . metropolitan life foundation donated about $ 1.7 million to pay for initial states of effort , aimed at baby boomers , those 75 million to 77 million americans born from 1946 to 1964 . john_glenn , former astronaut and senator , is among notable people enlisted to get future retirees to volunteer in their communities .
 wholesale beef prices drop , down about 20 percent since hitting all-time highs in october , but it may take weeks before price stickers for beef reflect decline in wholesale prices , if they ever do . wholesale prices remain higher than year ago . national cattlemen 's beef assn notes that typically there is lag of 6 to 10 weeks between wholesale prices and what you see at retail . high price of beef has had ripple effect throughout meat and poultry business .
 jennifer_steinhauer column says mayor_michael_r_bloomberg appears to have gained some respect from new yorkers by showing a tougher , more vociferous style of management . notes that his approval rating has risen to 47 percent from 31 percent in july 2003 . says he still needs to lift his standing with lower - and middle-class constituents , showing kind of charismatic leadership new yorkers want in mayor .
 anemona hartocollis coping column on david_friedman , successful new_york_city children 's party clown known as silly billy . friedman 's father , arnold , and younger brother , jesse , then 18 , were accused in 1987 of molesting boys during computer classes in basement of their great neck , long_island , home , pleaded guilty and were imprisoned , comments on his work and on capturing the friedmans , new movie directed by andrew_jarecki , about destruction of his family .
 former glenview naval air station in chicago suburb has been transformed into glen , community built almost entirely from scratch . new community has 2,900 residents , more than 420,000 square feet of office space , four new shopping areas and entertainment center . glenview manager paul_t_mccarthy and economic development director donald k owen comment .
 des moines register reports sighting political aides to gov george_e_pataki of new_york in des_moines , raising speculation that pataki is planning run for presidency . iowa is usual starting gate for presidential campaign . pataki 's political action committee , 21st century fund , files campaign finance reports showing increasing reliance on dci group for political advice .
 three long_island brothers who prefer not to be identified are last remaining members of adolf_hitler 's paternal bloodline . their father was william_patrick_hitler , son of alois_hitler jr , adolf_hitler 's half-brother . despite efforts to live quietly , brothers face limelight as new play little willy , based on their father 's life , opens in manhattan .
 article on young , idiosyncratic , independent filmmakers in new jersey . zach_braff , 29 , south orange native , wrote , directed and stars in his first movie , garden state , which was finalist for grand jury prize at this year 's sundance festival . directors kevin_smith and tom_mccarthy comment on using new jersey as backdrop for their films .
 janet_maslin critic 's notebook column on ellery_queen , author of detective stories who would have been 100 year old this year . queen was fictional character invented by danny_nathan as boy in 1917 . nathan , who changed his name to frederic_dannay , teamed up with his cousin , manfred_b_lee , and they published their first ellery queen book , the roman hat mystery , in 1929 . columbia_university 's butler library is celebrating character and his legacy in exhibition of queen memorabilia .
 ibm , with solid quarterly results and emphatic declaration of optimism , makes strong case that recovery in technology spending is spreading to corporate buyers . sun microsystems , computer maker , provides another sign of improvement in corporate market . its quarterly loss narrows sharply and sales hold up better than wall street expected . sales and earnings for ibm for fourth_quarter surpass consensus estimate on wall street . ibm revenues in quarter rise to $ 25.9 billion , 9 percent higher than same quarter_year ago . company reports net income of $ 2.7 billion , or $ 1.55 a share . loss of $ 125 million at sun_microsystems in second_quarter , or 4 cents a share , offers glimmer of hope .
 dan_barry about new_york column on rusting new_york_state_pavilion from 1964 world 's fair in flushing_meadows-corona_park in new_york_city . says pavilion was held as beacon of future but no one imagined future of neglect . says parks_department is seeking company willing to rehabilitate tower , which is now extremely dangerous .
 christian science monitor reporter jill_carroll arrives in germany on way home to united_states after kidnapping ordeal in iraq . says her videotape praising iraqi insurgency and condemning american presence was coerced . carroll struck chord in arab world throughout her captivity , perhaps in part because of her passionate attachment to iraq and its people . carroll first went to iraq in 2003 as freelance reporter .
 paul_m_tellier , president and chief executive of bombardier , is unexpectedly ousted from his post and quickly replaced by three-person office of president dominated by members of bombardier family . laurent beaudoin , son-in-law of later founder , joseph-armand bombardier , and company 's chairman , resumes position of chief executive , post he held from 1979 to 1999 . is joined by his son pierre , president and chief operating officer of bombardier_aerospace , and andre_navarri , head of bombardier 's transportation_equipment unit . both will add title of executive vice president .
 kurdish civilians begin fleeing cities or safeguarding homes along front lines with iraqi_army in northern iraq , saying they fear conventional or chemical attack from saddam_hussein as war draws near . they crowd into buses and taxis , or simply pile into cars , forming lines on highways , seeking what they hope would be safety in villages out of range of iraqi artillery . exodus is apparent in cities of kifri , kalar , dohuk and chamchamal . in erbil , largest city in northern iraq , thousands flee . withdrawal is marked by anxiety but not panic .
 chicago_city_council has approved wal-mart ` s application to open its first chicago store on site of former cosmetics plant , and this month it will consider wal-mart ' s proposal to build second store on site of shuttered steel plant . transformation of these industrial sites into wal-mart stores would reflect sweeping changes that are reshaping economies of chicago and much of urban_america . it may also lead wal-mart to reassess some corporate practices that have earned it huge profits but also drawn criticism from labor and community groups across country . wal-mart spokesman john_bisio says company wants to conform to spirit of how things are done in chicago , although he doubts company would soften its opposition to labor unions even in chicago , where labor unions are so strong .
 salvation army has gone to court in seattle to challenge trust dividing more than $ 260 million among eight charities , including greenpeace . salvation army , one of beneficiaries , argues that specific greenpeace organization to which donor , h guy di stefano , assigned money was dissolved in 2005 and that its affiliate is not eligible to receive gift . it wants court to divide money among seven other charities .
 ruben_omar_romano , former professional athlete and current coach of cruz azul soccer team , is kidnapped in broad daylight minutes after practice session ends in mexico city . carina_rochen , city district attorney spokeswoman , says kidnappers have demanded $ 500,000 . kidnappings have become commonplace among wealthy in mexico , with at least 70 reported kidnappings so far this year and 197 abductions in 2004 . maria elena_morera , mexicans united against crime leader , asserts that some progress has been made in fight against kidnapping , but stresses need for families to work with authorities rather than negotiate directly with criminals .
 fidelity investments gives clearest sign yet that administration of 401 -lrb- k -rrb- plans and other benefits programs will be increasingly important business for it by appointing abigail_p_johnson as president of fidelity_employer_services_co . johnson is daughter of fidelity 's chairman and chief executive edward_c_johnson 3d and has long been viewed as heir apparent . fidelity investor editor james_lowell says edward_johnson put his daughter in charge of area he sees leading to company 's future . unit that johnson will lead already employs 10,000 and provides services for more than 14,000 corporations that combine administer retirement programs for 19 million people .
 iran backs off demand to operate uranium enrichment equipment that could be used in nuclear bomb-making project , apparently salvaging nuclear agreement it reached with france , britain and germany to freeze all of its uranium enrichment , conversion and reprocessing activities . it also paves way for 35 countries on ruling_board_of_international_atomic_energy_agency to pass resolution only mildly critical of iran 's nuclear program . bush administration is convinced that iran has covert program to build nuclear bombs , despite its denials . administration sought much tougher language in iaea resolution . germany , france and britain have rejected flurry of american proposals for harshly worded resolution against iran .
 newly restored nine-foot-tall mosaic panel of evangeline_wilbour_blashfield memorial fountain on bridgemarket plaza at 59th street and first avenue is unveiled . blashfield , catalyst in forming municipal art society in 1893 , was suffragette and helped found sorosis , one of first secular women 's organizations in us . deputy mayor patricia_harris receives first evangeline_blashfield award from municipal art society .
 jeffrey_g_otteau , head of otteau_appraisal_group , keeps close tabs on new jersey 's housing transactions . says that recent year-end report from national_association_of_realtors , which gives positive numbers about sales prices in new jersey , was based on misleading data . says association does not compare same housing stock from year to year , thereby skewing median home prices . says he is not out to criticize group but only wants to point out that its method or reporting sales figures may overstate strength of housing market in some locales .
 harvard_university_president_lawrence_h_summers apologizes personally to group of distinguished women professors for remarks suggesting that women may be innately less able to succeed in math and science careers . he also discusses new steps to address diversity issues . prof howard_georgi says more than 100 of harvard 's some 600 professors have endorsed letter of reproach . sen ron_wyden reports summers very much regrets remarks .
 roman catholic diocese of orange_county , calif , reaches record settlement with 87 victims of abuse by priests and lay employees , agreeing to largest payment ever made by church in cases involving sexual misconduct . payment is at least $ 100 million , exceeding $ 85 million agreed to by archdiocese of boston . bishop tod_d_brown , who participated in negotiations , says settlement was ` fair and compassionate ' .
 vice pres dick_cheney will debate sen john_edwards on oct 5 . when they meet , they will try to focus attention on men at top of their respective tickets . aides say cheney 's goal is to portray pres bush as steadfast , principled leader and sen john_kerry as wavering , pandering liberal . edwards 's team says he will argue that bush has failed to make nation safer and to hit him hard on economy .
 washington , dc , homicide rate is lowest in 20 years , but number of victims younger than 18 almost doubled last_year , to 24 , up from 13 in 2003 . police and city officials attribute much of crime to gangs and say many victims were in wrong place at wrong time . all juvenile victims last year were black .
 op-ed article by martin_mayer_says_federal_reserve chairman alan_greenspan should weigh in on debate over pres bush 's social security proposal . says under bush plan , annuities retirees can buy will be determined largely by intereest rates set by federal_reserve . says federal_open_market_committee meets eight times a year to set short-term interest rates . says several hundred_thousand baby boomers who retire between meetings will have different rate of return , depending on month they retire .
 buster_olney inside the nfl column contends that oakland_raiders ' attempts to blame raiders center barret_robbins , who missed super bowl because of alleged chemical imbalance , for loss to tampa_bay buccaneers are transparent and inappropriate . new_york_giants will try to renegotiate contracts of cornerback jason_sehorn and wide receiver ike_hilliard .
 elaine_ward , owner of isis plumbing in new_york_city , is one of small number of female plumbers in city , one of few women who own plumbing business in city and one of few women licensed in city as master plumber . plumbers local union 1 says 1 percent of its 4,600 working members are female . local 1 participates in new_city program to increase women and minorities in unionized construction jobs .
 detusche telekom earned 1.3 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.5 billion -rrb- in 2003 , after 24.6 billion loss -lrb- $ 29.2 billion -rrb- in 2002 . kai-uwe ricke , who took helm of company in november 2002 , has whittled down company 's $ 64 billion in debt by almost_quarter , beating his own target and putting company on stable course .
 article on $ 7 million libel suit filed by les_maron , village attorney in tuckahoe , ny , against village residents tamara_o'bradovich and husband michael_mcguire . o'bradovich , regular at village hall meetings , has written about half-dozen letters to village mayor and board calling maron 's performance shoddy , substandard , unprofessional and inappropriate . maron and lawyer assert village attrorney is not public official .
 foreign min manouchehr_mottaki of iran meets with foreign min hoshyar_zebari of iraq in first gathering between new government of prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki of iraq and its eastern neighbor . zebari issues carefully worded statement endorsing iran 's right to pursue capabilities to create nuclear power for peaceful purposes . statement reflects delicate position of iraq , which is caught between united_states and iran .
 federal grand jury indicts former purchasepro.com executives charles_johnson , christopher_benyo , joseph_m_kennedy and scott_wiegand and former american online executives kent_wakeford and john_tuli . indictment states aol and purchasepro worked out complex deal that was meant to inflate revenues of both companies before purchasepro began to collapse in 2001 amid recriminations . johnson 's lawyer yale l galanter says charges against his client ae baseless .
 securities and exchange_commission , in rare move , sets aside lifetime ban from securities industry imposed on credit_suisse first boston_former_investment_banker_frank_p_quattrone , just days after federal appeals court overturned his 2004 conviction on obstruction of justice . says nasd , market regulator that imposed ban , violated its own rules in taking action in november 2004 .
 atlantic yards in brooklyn , one of largest real estate projects in new_york_city 's history , is shaping up as major political issue in borough . some office holders walk fine line with no clear position on development . councilwoman letitia_james , whose district takes in most of atlantic yards site , is outspokenly opposed to project . assemblyman roger l green , whose district overlaps james 's and site , supports project and its developer forest city ratner companies .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column on mexico 's success in using ballots , not bullets , three years ago to ease out one of oldest one-party governments in world . says mexico 's political and economic revolutions , driven from top , were good for 1990 's but must be followed by third revolution , one that mobilizes and upgrades skills of whole society .
 bush administration is incensed by france 's demands for greater_united_nations oversight in iraq , and is working to isolate france and win majority at united_nations_security_council for american approach . secretary of state_colin_l_powell is stepping up efforts to enlist support of russia , germany and other nations for american control over occupation and transition to self-rule in iraq , even though many of them sided with france in opposing war . that tactic did not work for administration earlier this year , when it sought resolution authorizing use of force to overthrow saddam_hussein and france threatened veto . big difference this time is that even french officials say france will not veto new resolution on iraq .
 moscow arbitration coiurt upholds claim for $ 3.4 billion in back taxes against russian oil giant yukos , bringing company one step closer to question of how it might pay up without bankrupting itself . yukos ' lawyers say they will recommend appeal , which would again freeze government 's tax claim . yukos chief executive steven_m_theede says yukos is strong and healthy company , but tax bill poses threat .
 dance theater of harlem founder arthur_mitchell says company may disband if it fails to come up with $ 2.5 million to stanch its losses by end of june . mitchell , 70 , who has been accused of inept management , says he will surrender his administrative duties . says company intends to continue its school , which serves 800 to 1,000 students .
 muslims and mormons in salt lake_city join forces to pray for safe return of cpl wassef ali_hassoun , who is being held captive in iraq . muslim population of utah is about 25,000 , including about 3,000 iraqis , and many marvel at how well two faiths co-exist , although some muslims complain their culture is still misunderstood .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg and city_council_speaker_gifford_miller offer competing tax rebates . bloomberg favors $ 400 rebate to homeowners who bore burden of 18.5 percent property tax increase . miller favors plan to roll back property taxes permanently by 2 percent across board , including those of commerical property owners . bloomberg , republican , accuses miller , democrat , of being in bed with big business .
 national kidney foundation says one million americans , most between ages of 20 and 40 and 80 percent of them men , are treated for kidney stones every year , resulting in 300,000 hospitalizations at cost of $ 1.8 billion . experts say men who have had one episode are more likely to have another . diagnosis and treatment described . experts offer tips on how to avoid stones , primarily by changing diet .
 several families who survived holocaust are responsible for getting german officer maj karl plagge recognized for saving hundreds of jews in german-occupied vilna from extermination during world war ii . plagge 's name will be inscribed on plaque at yad vashem , holocaust memorial in israel . dr michael good researched plagge 's history and convinced israeli authorities that plagge helped save hundreds of jews at great risk to himself .
 roughly one out of every seven high school diplomas granted in us in recent years has gone to someone who has passed tests for general_equivalency_diploma . tests , officially called general educational development tests , have increasingly become way for teenagers to short-circuit high school . nationally , teenagers accounted for 49 percent of those earning ged 's in 2002 , up from 33 percent decade earlier . over 37,000 school-age students in new_york_city in 2003 were in ged programs that were run by school system , up from 25,500_two years earlier . most educators view ged 's as valuable option for people who do not make it through high school , but they do not consider it equivalent .
 king_county , wash , green river task force is again working on serial murder case that began with discovery of first few bodies in 1982 and involves 49 identified victims . has uncovered three sets of remains and identified one victim in last_month , prompting speculation that gary_l_ridgway , charged with seven of killings , is leading police to remains as part of plea deal .
 reading file quotes teresa_blythe 's article on what americans would know about god if their only source of information were television shows like joan of arcadia . quotes alex_gourevitch 's article on us_occupation 's response to iraq 's sometimes hostile emerging media . notes redesigned hershey 's milk chocolate bar wrapper , as described by new_york_times art director steven_heller .
 kate_stone_lombardi county lines column on strident divisions among parishioners at holy rosary church in hawthorne , ny . controversy centers on parish priest , rev anthony_giuliano , who has been reassigned . trouble reportedly began three and half years ago when father giuliano suggested consolidating parish school with one at holy name of jesus_church in nearby valhalla .
 house , 300-125 , approves constitutional amendment to give congress_power to bar desecration of american flag . measure , previously passed four times by house , has always died in senate , where opponents argue it would infringe on first amendment . at issue is whether new burst of patriotism will carry measure through senate . pres bush backs bill . proponents say it has support in legislatures of all 50 states . bill may not come up for senate vote until 2004 .
 imclone_system_inc 's cancer drug erbitux is expected to receive_food_and_drug_administration approval by end of week . doctors say drug will be important therapy , initially for patients with colorectal cancer who have run out of options . investors have bid imclone shares up to over $ 41 , far above stock 's low of $ 6.11 in fall of 2002 . dr john_mendelsohn , co-founder of erbitux , has resigned from board of imclone_systems .
 news and information sites on internet are recovering from doldrums that followed collapse of dot-com boom . biggest sign of resurgence is bidding war for cbs_markwatch , in which dow jones beat out new_york_times , gannett and viacom . that deal is said to be worth $ 519 million , about six times_marketwatch 's 2004 revenue . many of same companies that were badly burned by internet investments before are aggressively bidding for news sites now , not just because of growing online ad business but also because they are worried that their current web sites will not be able to keep up with demand . online advertising is expected to reach $ 9.7 billion in 2004 .
 jurors in federal terrorism case against jose_padilla hear his voice for first time discussing -- by government 's account -- secret plans to travel overseas and wage jihad . padilla , adham_hassoun and kifah_jayyousi are accused of conspiracy to murder , maim and kidnap people abroad . fbi says it recorded some 300,000 calls over years of building evidence for case . 123 will be played at trial .
 education sec rod_paige defends record of houston public schools , which he led before joining bush administration , interview with new_york_times_editorial_board . says gains in student achievement were genuine although there probably was dropout problem . addresses questions about federal education act largely modeled on changes first adopted in texas . underreporting of dropouts in houston has been under increasing scrutiny by texas_education_agency , state politicians and news media .
 massachusetts_institute_of_technology and bhutan collaborate on largest commercial book ever published : bhutan : a visual odyssey across the himalayan kingdom . picture book is five feet high , weighs more than 130 pounds and pushes technological frontiers of digital photography and computer printing . 500 copies will be sold for $ 10,000 apiece : $ 1,000 to cover cost of production and $ 9,000 as tax-deductible charitable contribution to support education in bhutan and send bhutanese students to college abroad . michael_hawley , director for special projects at mit , is mastermind behind project .
 natasa_kandic , human rights advocate identified by jack_kelley , usa today correspondent who recently resigned under pressure , as source for 1999 article about ethnic cleansing in kosovo_village , disputes many of article 's details , phone interview . she told usa today about disagreements at oct meeting . his editors began questioning article , and several others he wrote over years , last may . at issue is his claim that he saw typed order to ` cleanse ' village in yugoslav_army notebook .
 australian government is uneasy about status of david_hicks , australian held at guantanamo_bay since his capture in afghanistan , where he trained with al_qaeda . australia is concerned united_states might drop charges because it does not have strong case or for fear of what would come out in trial of hicks , who alleges he has been tortured . officials are reluctant to criticize bush administration , but prime min john_howard is under pressure to do something for hicks a .
 julie_bosman advertising column on estimates from newspaper assn of america indicating that newspaper print ad spending in first_quarter increased only 0.3 percent , to $ 10.5 billion , while spending for online advertising surged 35 percent , to $ 613 million , from year earlier . opportunities for growth , in addition to classified ads , include interactive ads , wallpaper ads and ads with streaming video or audio .
 explosions and heavy gunfire thunder across falluja as american troops seize control of two strategic bridges , hospital and other objectives in first stage of long-expected invasion of city , center of iraqi insurgency . prime min ayad allawi proclaims state of emergency for 60 days , which gives him broad powers to impose curfews , order house-to-house searches and detain suspects . force is composed of between 10,000 and 15,000 american soldiers and marines backed by newly trained iraqi forces . american commanders brace troops for brutal block-by-block battle to take control and capture , kill or disperse estimated 3,000 to 4,000 insurgents . most civilians in falluja , city of about 250,000 , are believed to have left . defense sec donald_rumsfeld and gen richard_myers are monitoring combat preparation and updated combat reports .
 dr kenneth_i_berns , chief executive of new_york 's mount_sinai medical center , is resigning barely one year after assuming post . will remain on staff as professor . will be replaced by dr kenneth_l_davis , who is currently dean of medical school . up to 500 health care workers will be laid off in hospitalwide shakeup . change is widely viewed as final refutation of 1998 merger with new_york_university_medical_center .
 leo f mullin will step aside as chief executive of delta_air_lines . came under fire earlier this year from congress and union officials over pay package they deemed excessive and has battled in vain for concessions from pilots . gerald_grinstein , 71 , will succeed mullin as chief executive on jan 1 , and john_f_smith_jr , 65 , will become chairman when mullin steps down from that post on april 23 .
 unusually high number of tsunami victims appear to have been children , lost to epic waves that swept away the week , the old and the young . unicef officials estimate that at least third of 30,000 people killed in sri_lanka were children . if same ratio holds true across southern_asia , as many as 50,000 children could have died on dec 26 . surviving them are tens of thousands of distraught parents . mourning parents are coming together to comfort one another .
 editorial holds that pres bush , in his jan 10 speech to nation , showed how disconnected he is from iraq 's tragic reality and american 's anguish over mismanaged , unwinnable war . says if he persists in sending more troops to iraq , despite congress 's justified opposition , he should put pressure on iraqi prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki to work toward genuine program of national reconciliation . says bush should hold conference with iraq 's neighbors to discuss how they can help stabilize iraq . says if bush does not enforce ultimatum to maliki , congress must . welcomes congress 's hearings and questionings of administration officials . says congress must force bush to accept his responsibilities .
 new_york_city housing authority recently announced it would move its six bronx locations into hutchinson metro center , reborn and recast bronx development center that once housed psychiatric center . agency 's 20-year lease represents major step toward filling what is largest high-end office development in bronx . original hospital structure was transformed through $ 70 million renovation . center is occupied by mercy_college_plus_health_care_practices_and_internal_revenue_service office . developer and owner is joe_simone of simone development co .
 on stage and off column . road presenters across us are shocked to learn that tony award-winning musical avenue q will forgo road tour in favor of exclusive booking in new $ 40 million theater in las_vegas opening on labor day 2005 . producer kevin_mccollum defends decision . actress kathleen_turner will star in broadway revival of edward_albee 's who 's afraid of virginia woolf . .
 legal team of dick_deguerin , mike_ramsey and chip lewis , which successfully defended robert a durst against charges of murdering morris black in galveston , tex , was almost dismantled by durst 's wife , debrah lee charatan . charatan fired high-profile lawyer michael_kennedy , who wanted durst declared incompetent , and twice tried to fire deguerin .
 article on growth of small businesses that deal with internet fraud . icg founder-chief executive michael_allison says company has grown to 35 employees and revenue of projected $ 7 million this year from 8 employees and $ 1.5 million four years ago . computer security firm mi2g says online identity theft cost businesses and consumers more than $ 5 billion last year worldwide , while spamming drained $ 3.5 billion from corporations . kroll has seven crime laboratories around world and is opening two more in us .
 israeli helicopter strike kills hamas leader dr abdel_aziz_rantisi and two bodyguards , gaza_city . attack closely follows palestinian suicide bomb attack that killed israeli security worker and wounded three others north of city . palestinians respond with noisy street protests and vows of revenge throughout gaza and west_bank . rantisi was known for fiery statements rejecting any compromise with israel .
 douglas_pinter is organizing residents at urban_glass_house , new condominium building , to fight plans by new_york_city sanitation dept for 15-story garage that will block much of river view . craig nevill-manning and wife kristin buy condominium at 150 nassau street for $ 6.45 million . gwyneth paltrow and husband chris_martin put tribeca apartment on market for $ 14 million after buying it for $ 7.95 million two years ago .
 ronald and karen_kowalski draw ire from their easton , conn , neighbors by giving sprint rights to place cellular phone tower in their backyard . mr_kowalski is partner at cacace , tusch_&_santagata , law firm that sprint has often retained on tower placement . kowalski considered $ 500,000 bid for rights from upscale neighbors , but eventually took sprint 's offer . legal attempts to upset tower 's construction fail because state law has firmly established that municipalities have no real say in tower placement .
 supreme court decision allowing maine to move ahead with drug discount program is likely to embolden other states trying to costs of prescription drugs , which account for nine percent of medicaid spending but which are rising at annual rates of fifteen to twenty percent . hawaii has similar law and bills are pending in 18 other states . sen olympia_snowe hails ruling .
 marine units that make up task force tarawa move to engage iraqi_army 's 10th armored division at amara , but iraqi fighters appear to have fled , leaving vehicles scattered across countryside . marines encircle city , firing only two shots . iraqi division at full strength had 219 tanks , 260 armored personnel carriers , more than 60 artillery pieces and more than 5,000 soldiers , but those numbers are thought to have been reduced by as much as 75 percent by allied airstrikes .
 pres bush 's new iraq war strategy , with explicit acknowledgment that not enough troops had been sent to establish control , is vindication for now-retired general eric_k_shinseki . former army chief of staff publicly told congress as much before war began in 2003 . first vilified , then marginalized by bush administration , shinseki retired .
 weekly standard , journal with close ties to bush administration hawks , reports on highly classified oct 27 memo from douglas_j_feith , under secretary of defense , to senate_intelligence_committee , listing 50 points of raw intelligence that , according to feith , points to operational link between iraq and al_qaeda . conservatives are seizing on report as evidence that iraq did indeed pose real danger to us . government officials with knowledge of intelligence on iraq say reports cited by feith are authentic , but they are not new and some are not credible .
 gov george e pataki and legislature agree to send property tax rebate checks to new_york homeowners and add more than $ 1 billion to state budget as legislature 's regular session comes to close . larger checks will go to regions with highest property taxes , with westchester_county residents getting $ 373 on average , or $ 613 for those 65 or older . agreement caps frenzied week as pataki battled with lawmakers over state spending , tax cuts and education . $ 113.4 billion budget draws criticism from fiscal conservatives , who say roughly 9 percent increase in state spending is highest in over three decades .
 tempers are beginning to fray in phoenix , where severe gasoline shortage now in its third day has forced thousands of motorists into round-the-block lines at filling stations . pipeline that is primary source of gas for phoenix area was shut down as safety precaution on aug 8 after rupturing in desert on july 30 . gas prices , which had only recently begun to edge downard , now hover around $ 2 a gallon .
 growing number of large office real estate investment trust companies have sold properties that are not in what they call their core markets . trizec properties sold $ 993.4 million worth of property this year , making it biggest seller among reit 's . equity office properties trust , nation 's second largest office reit , was second , with sales of $ 705.6 million , and vornado_realty_trust ranked fifth , with sales of $ 292 million .
 gov eliot spitzer wants to redraw current plans favored by new_york_city for jacob_k_javits_convention_center and expand it north and south , making it even larger . bloomberg_administration , who wants center revamped quickly as keystone for its ambitious plans for far west side , is dismayed , asserting in an internal memo that governor 's proposal would add more than $ 1 billion to cost of project and delay completion by up to six years .
 japan 's economy appears to have hit bump on road to recovery just as bulls are starting to return to tokyo stock market . coldest summer in decade appears to be culprit . summer months are crucial to economy because most full-time workers get their bonuses in june and july and take vacations in august . cold snap and longer-than-usual rainy season could shave off as much as half percentage point off japan 's growth rate in july-september quarter .
 baseball notebook discusses new_york yankees manager joe_torre , who says that pitcher kevin_brown will start game 3 of american_league division series against minnesota_twins . twins will likely start pitcher johan_santana in game 4 . yankees bench coach willie_randolph says he has not interviewed for any managerial jobs .
 planned stock offering in time_warner_cable has investment and commercial bankers scrambling for business in what is otherwise arid market . aol_time_warner in march plans to sell portion of its majority stake in its cable company to public in what will probably be biggest equity deal of year . bankers ' fees are expected to reach $ 120 million to $ 130 million . bankers say bear stearns has already secured top slot and that morgan_stanley is close to it .
 indonesia 's oil industry is being squandered through underinvestment , bureaucracy , corruption and wariness of multinational companies . annual production has dropped by more than one third in last_decade . draining of existing fields has forced indonesia , one of oldest members of organization of petroleum exporting countries , to import oil in last_quarter_of 2004 .
 revolt among pennsylvania conservatives topples state senate leaders robert_jubelirer and david_brightbill in party primary . photo . majority leader brightbill outspends political novice mike_folmer nearly 20 to one and still captures only 37 percent of vote . john_eichelberger defeats jubelirer . national conservatives cheer but some worry about impact in november . anger caught fire after legislature approved pay increases of up to 54 percent for elected officials .
 justice department signs consent decree with new times media and village voice media , newsweekly chains that it had accused of dividing markets when they closed competing papers , the cleveland free times and the new times los_angeles , in october 2002 . each company will pay fines to california and ohio and aid in opening of new weekly papers in los_angeles and cleveland . newsweekly industry questions government action against it during period of uncontested media conglomeration .
 olen kalugin , kgb general who spied on americans for years and recruited john a walker jr , navy warrant officer , to work for soviet_union , is sworn in as us citizen . describes his loss of faith in communism . is now professor at center for counterintelligence and security studies in alexandria , va . was convicted of treason in moscow in 2002 and is liable to 15-year sentence if he returns to russia .
 ford_motor_co 's chief executive alan r mulally dismisses speculation by some analysts and industry executives that ford would require third round of cuts on top of two already announced , address at new_york international auto show . strategy calls for ford to close 14 factories and to eliminate as many as 44,000 hourly and salaried jobs , or about third of its work force by 2008 . ford does not expect to make money in north_america for two more years . mulally introduces crossover vehicle called flex .
 l paul_bremer_iii , who served for 414 days as america 's proconsul in iraq , gives rare interview days before turning over sovereignty to iraqis . seeks to bolster flagging confidence of many in iraq and united_states that american enterprise can recover from blows of insurgency and lead to creation of stable , democratically governed iraq . undercurrent of caution and uncertainty shows through at several points during interview .
 vieques_island , which for years united_states_navy used for bombing tests and war games , awaits development as tropical paradise now that navy is gone . over half of vieques has become wildlife refuge overseen by interior_dept . island has been small but vibrant tourist destination for decades . john_hix , architect from canada , is fostering form of tropical modernism on vieques .
 roman catholic archdiocese of los_angeles , which cut 60 jobs and pared numerous programs last year in effort to bridge $ 4.3 million budget gap , releases figures showing that deficit has more than tripled , to $ 13.4 million . one-time costs , including settlements resulting from sexual abuse lawsuits , account for $ 7.7 milloin of estimated shortfall .
 frank_moss is named director of massachusetts_institute_of_technology 's media lab . says his job is to think 20 years in future . relies on corporate sponsors that use lab as incubator for future products and innovations . nearly 100 companies , including motorola , samsung and toyota , currently support lab with $ 32 million in annual funding . innovations to emerge from lab since 1980 's include digital ink , wearable computers and advanced prostheses .
 democratic presidential hopeful sen hillary_rodham_clinton proposes legislation to spend $ 10 billion over five years to build classrooms , train teachers and get millions of children , especially girls , into school in developing world . sen barack_obama and john_edwards have made their own ambitious education proposals for poor nations . candidates say public education is important way to combat terrorism and extremist ideas .
 peter c kesling retraces route taken by horatio_nelson_jackson , who , in 1903 on impulsive barroom bet , drove automobile from san_francisco to new_york , something no one had done . jackson made trip in 63 days , fast , considering he was driving mostly on dusty trails . kesling , driving 1903 winton , is on pace to complete 3,720-mile trip today in 40 days . also arriving today is charlie wake , whose great grandfather alexander_winton made car that made first trip .
 amtrak chairman david_m_laney signals that independent board that runs railroad objects to significant parts of pres bush 's plans for overhaul , especially idea to reorganize company through bankruptcy . bush has called for elimination of federal aid in six months , which would kill railroad unless it is restructured . under bush plan , if amtrak can be reorganized , most subsidies would be paid by states , idea that many state officials reject . bush proposes turning over tracks from washington to boston to new entity and opening service around company to competitors . laney and board are all bush appointees .
 article on penns_grove , once prosperous new jersey town along delaware_river where developer hannalily llc , despite opposition by governors of both states , hopes to build floating casino and club . property owner george_kearns wants to build 200,000-square - foot retail complex called riverwalk . boundary established in 1682 by duke_of_york in land grant to william_penn put new jersey state line few steps from edge of town 's waterfront and any floating casino , therefore , would be in delaware .
 white_house letter compares d-day commemorations in each decade since 1944 . pres dwight_eisenhower , former supreme allied commander , did not travel to normandy and simply acknowledged that invasion set in motion events that affected history of entire world . lyndon_johnson also stayed home , but sent delegation led by gen_omar_bradley . richard_nixon was so consumed by watergate that anniversary passed with little notice . ronald_reagan began era of wider commemoration , delivering powerful speech . bill clinton and george_bush have each presided at large ceremonies , perhaps indicative that event has entered more comfortable zone of memory .
 enron_corp 's transaction involving blockbuster that set up video-on-demand operation is perhaps most absurd of all of enron 's deals . enron did not have technology to deliver video-on-demand on commercially viable basis . kevin_howard , who worked as vice president of finance at enron 's broadband division , and michael_krautz , division accountant , have been charged by justice_department with engineering fraud that generated more than $ 100 million in revenue through short-lived business .
 washington , dc , city officials contest census bureau figures showing that city 's population fell by 20,523 from 2000 to 2005 , but acknowledge that growth has been slower than anticipated . mayor anthony a williams had envisioned additional 100,000 people flocking to revitalized city by 2010 , but city planners now hope to meet goal of 36,000 people by 2010 .
 traffic on northbound i-95 in bridgeport , conn , reopens for first time since blazing tanker crash on march 25 buckled half an overpass . state hopes that southbound lanes will open in few days . test show that damage to northbound side was less severe than originally feared . bridge on southbound side , which was totally destroyed , will be replaced by rented bridge . entire restoration is expected to take 18 months .
 jeff_madrick 's economic scene column on wal-mart as new model of american productivity but company that pays low wages . says new study by arindrajit_dube and ken_jacobs of university_of_california , berkeley , has produced evidence of wal-mart ` s comparatively low wages . researchers calculate that in san_francisco_bay area , company 's average wage , about $ 11 per hour , is about 30 percent below what unionized workers get in local grocery chains . also find that average wal-mart wage for all of california is 20 to 30 percent below average wage paid by retailers with 1,000 ormore workers .
 five public high schools in bronx will expand or create smaller alternative schools for as many as 2,000 failing students , who will be able to work towards earning regular diplomas . bloomberg_administration is moving aggressively to pick up four-year graduation rate : dismally low 53.4 percent citywide and less than 50 percent in bronx . hopes smaller schools will help students who are falling through cracks in larger schools . will spend $ 8 million on program .
 israeli government denies any spying in united_states . denial comes in response to fbi investigation of unidentified_defense_dept official in office of undersec_douglas_j_feith who is suspected of passing classified report on iran to american_israel_public_affairs_committee , which in turn is thought to have provided report to israel . israel insists it made firm decision to end all clandestine spying in us after embarrassing spying scandal in 1985 involving jonathan_pollard .
 joyce_purnick metro matters column examines complex racial politics in new_york_city 's mayoral race . says fernando_ferrer has alienated many influential black leaders , some of whom are supporting mayor michael_bloomberg for re-election , while others favor c virginia fields in primary . suggests long-term democratic strategy may be backing william_c_thompson jr , already considered strong candidate , in 2008 .
 article on treasure trove of contemporary indian art discovered in 2002 by art specialist mortimer_chatterjee in storeroom in taj mahal hotel in mumbai . elizabeth_kerkar , hotel 's former interior decorator , began collecting and installing modern works in hotel in 1960 's . value of and demand for indian art has risen substantially in recent years and some works that sold for less than $ 200_two decades ago now command prices of $ 50,000 and up .
 dan_barry_column on huge mural that alberto_gonzalez of artkraft_strauss sign corp is currently painting high up on wall of building at eighth avenue and 33rd street . mural is greatly magnified reproduction of bruce_mccall painting that is roughly 24 inches by 18 inches . client is delta_air_lines . painted facades were once routine in new_york , but are now giving way to vinyl ads that are drawn across brick like tucked bed sheets .
 hundreds of militiamen linked to shiite cleric moktada_al-sadr_battle_local_police and members of badr organization , rival shiite militia , in amara . mahdi army , sadr 's militia force , at one point appears to be in control of eastern_half_of_city . it withdraws after negotiations involving representatives of warring militias and prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki ` s delegates . iraqi army battalion takes control of city . clashes cast doubt on ability of ruling shiite coalition to hold itself together . it also underscores weaknesses of iraqi security forces and potency of mahdi_army .
 volume of chinese sightseers to europe has surged since china put european_union on its list of approved tourist destinations two years ago . france is their top destination . about 700,000 chinese tourists visited france last_year , and number is climbing annually . rising volume is remaking european tourism . hotel chains now deploy chinese-speaking staff members and offer chinese food on their breakfast buffets . chinese shopping appetite is so big that some luxury retailers limit number of items any one shopper can purchase .
 gen wesley_k_clark has not yet convinced democratic voters that he has rightful claim to party 's presidential nomination . polls show support for him in new_hampshire has flatlined or even fallen . clark was preparing campaign against howard_dean and was caught off guard when sen john_kerry won iowa caucuses . is facing emboldened challenges from kerry , decorated vietnam veteran , and sen john_edwards who , like clark , is from south . clark 's campaign has faced some internal tension and has reduced public role of chris_lehane , one of its top strategists . clark 's campaign has no chief political strategist and is having difficulty adapting to changed scene since iowa .
 for first time on record , florida is hit by four hurricanes in single season . hurricane jeanne comes ashore on florida 's central atlantic_coast near tip of hutchinson_island -- nearly same spot where hurricane frances came ashore on sept 5 . two million people are urged to evacuate , many o them for second time this month . about 185,000 customers lose power .
 us government reports that foreign purchases of american securities and stocks rose sharply in november . foreigners bought $ 99.7 billion of american_securities in november , up from revised $ 65.4 billion in october . dollar rallies as soon as numbers are released but gives back some gains later in day , as euro closes at $ 1.3029 , down from $ 1.3106 . dollar rises to 102.29 japanese yen , from 101.91 .
 universities have enjoyed ownership of research breakthroughs that were developed on their campuses with help of federal financing and have been scrambling to turn them into commercial ventures since congress passed bayh-dole technology-transfer law of 1980 . transfer of technology from campus to capitalist marketplace has been financial windfall for many schools . revenue for all universities generated from their researchers ' inventions has nearly doubled , to $ 1.3 billion in 2002 from $ 699 million five_years_ago . business plan developed by now former university_of_arizona students sara_conrad and daniel_berger for device to detect shaken-baby syndrome invented by two professors at university 's medical school discussed .
 relatives of victims of 2000 dormitory fire at seton_hall_university_express anger at sentencing of joseph_t_lepore and sean_michael_ryan on lesser charges of arson and witness tampering . lepore and ryan are sentenced to five years in prison with chance of parole in 16 months . frank_caltabilota jr , aaron_karol and john_giunta died in blaze .
 arts briefing column . some experts dispute claim by disney 's touchstone pictures that its new action-adventure film hidalgo is based on true story . disney senior vice president dennis_rice says movie is based on life of american_frank_t_hopkins . revival of tennessee_williams 's cat on a hot tin roof , suffering decline in box office after foot injury forced ashley_judd from cast , will close on march 7 .
 f patrick_quinn_iii , new_orleans developer , has made offers on more than 20 hotels in louisiana and mississippi to add to 15 he owns in and around new_orleans ' french quarter , operating under name decatur hotels . has contacted home builders and urban planner to help him figure out cost of replacing flooded sections of city with planned communities . has purchased more than 5,000 bunk beds to install in empty warehouses he has leased around new_orleans to create makeshift barracks to house cleanup crews and other blue-collar workers .
 author david_fromkin op-ed article holds that suez crisis 50 years ago was divide in history of middle_east . contends that it was moment when us pushed out europeans and then tried to take their place -- and reverberations are still felt today . maintains that britain and france drew opposite conclusions from suez experience . says britain noted that it was dependent on us and would have to act accordingly , but france decided that us would not protect its interests . says israel compromised itself through its partnership with european imperialism -- providing evidence to enemies who had asserted all along that israel was no more than european imperialist itself .
 sen john_kerry is considering delaying his acceptance of democratic presidential nomination until five weeks after party 's july convention so he may continue spending tens of millions of dollars he has raised for primary season . move could offset what otherwise might be severe financial disadvantage for kerry under rules for public financing of campaigns . he and bush are planning to use federal funds in their campaigns , and will be limited to spending $ 75 million apiece . spending cap kicks in at moment candidate is nominated by his party or on sept 1 , whichever comes first . bush has five more weeks in which he can spend unlimited amount of money , while kerry has to make his $ 75 million allowance last that much longer . bush and kerry photos .
 divers scour waters of sharm_el_sheik , egypt , working to recover bodies of 148 people killed there when boeing 737 crashed into sea . remains of 60 people have been found so far . feeling in sharm el sheik resort is of deep grief for 133 french tourists killed in crash after spending carefree week at resort .
 ricardo_sanchez , host of popular spanish-language radio program in los_angeles , is one of handful of radio personalities credited with steering hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters into streets of downtown los_angeles on march 25 to protest legislation before congress that would make it felony to be in us without proper papers and federal crime to aid illegal immigrants .
 dr behrokh khoshnevis , engineering professor at university_of_southern_california , has invented robot that may one day build houses and apartment buildings , saving time and money and reducing human costs like injuries . his goal now is to completely construct one-story , 2,000-square - foot home on site in one day , without using human hands . experiment has been financed so far mainly by national_science_foundation and office of naval research .
 article on evelyn_post , 65 , of clifton , nj , known as coupon queen , who has been clipping and using coupons for 40 years . post , who also shops for st peter 's haven food bank as well as good shepherd mission in paterson , nj , estimates that she saves about 50 percent on every grocery store bill . says trick is to combine sales and coupons and avoid products not on sale .
 sen john_kerry 's elitist reputation is result of his unusual background , growing up in family with little extra money but with very wealthy and generous relatives . relatives helped pay for his education at exclusive private schools and at yale . he spent summers at estate in france belonging to grandparents . he has been married to two very wealthy women , julia_thorne and teresa_heinz_kerry . heinz kerry owns four homes and fifth is co-owned with kerry . they guard their privacy scrupulously . detailed look at kerry 's upbringing .
 new jersey state sen william_gormley asks gov james_mcgreevey to compel charles_kushner , mcgreevey 's nominee for chairman of port_authority_of_new_york and new jersey , to testify before judiciary committee about his ownership interest in norcrown bank . action arises out of suit charging that kushner may have made improper campaign contributions .
 zepu glacier in eastern_tibet is melting at record pace . runoff from zepu , which has lost more than 100 yards of thickness over past three decades , has formed powerful new river . dr yao_tandong , china_institute_of_tibetan_plateau_research director , and ohio_state_university scientists led by geological science professor dr lonnie_g_thompson hold that melting in tibet is representative of glacial melt around world . experts assert that effects of warming will cause long-term threat of floods in low-lying areas , including new_york_city and tokyo .
 sen hillary clinton formally enters 2008 presidential race . her entrance follows that of sen barack_obama by less than one week , highlighting importance of not falling behind in competition for campaign contributions . candidates hope to show strength in crowded field at early stage by securing donations and lining up fund-raisers . no prominent past clinton fund-raiser has moved to obama camp . attention given to clinton and obama is making fund-raising much more difficult for other democrats .
 pres bush begins first full day of weeklong trip to latin_america in sao_paulo , brazil , promising job-creating aid , but ends up competing for attention with pres hugo_chavez of venezuela , who calls american visit act of imperialism . bush completes agreement with pres luiz_inacio_lula_da_silva to increase development of ethanol as leading alternative to oil . chavez leads ` anti-imperialist ' rally in buenos_aires .
 students , faculty and alumni of curtis high school on staten_island demand reinstatement of aurelia_l_curtis , who was removed as principal in december pending new_york_city education department 's investigation of her conduct in two episodes last fall . one involved supposed threat by student to bomb building . other was attempt by local police to arrest three curtis students inside school . school was honored by college_board for motivating students to attend college .
 dan_glickman , former agriculture secretary under pres bill clinton and democratic congressman from kansas , is named chairman of motion_picture_association_of_america , succeeding 82-year-old jack_valenti . glickman plans to resign his current position running institute of politics at john_f_kennedy_school_of_government at harvard to take over association in september .
 new jersey sports and exposition authority accepts $ 160 million from partnership of mills_corp , mack-cali_realty_corp and kanam_group for rights to build $ 1.3 billion project in east_rutherford , nj . 104-acre meadowlands xandu project will include family entertainment complex , stores , restaurants , offices , hotels and minor league baseball stadium . authority says project should provide 19,000 permanent jobs and $ 133 million new state and local taxes .
 paleontologists considering huge size of tyrannosaurus rex conclude that during teenage growth surge , t rex put on average of 4.6 pounds a day over four years . say new study of tyrannosaur bones determined that meat-eating t rex gained 6,600 pounds to reach full adult weight of more than 11,000 pounds , length of 42 feet and height of 14 feet at the hips . findings are reported in journal nature .
 conrad de aenlle market values column on investing in american companies that are looking abroad to increase revenue . merrill lynch economist david_rosenberg notes that exports account for just 10 percent of american economic output but comprise 40 percent of revenue for companies in standard_&_poor 's 500 . says economic growth and business sentiment are showing improvement in europe , where inflation remains low .
 liberty_media_corp increases its voting stake in news_corp to 9.1 percent , making it second-largest shareholder after murdoch family , which controls 30 percent of vote . will control 17 percent of news corp because it still holds large number of nonvoting shares . some industry experts say move appears to be hostile transaction because john_c_malone , who controls liberty_media , has so drastically increased his voting stake without informing_news_corp chairman , rupert_murdoch .
 fbi raids congressional offices of louisiana rep william_j_jefferson as part of corruption investigation focused on jefferson and kentucky businessman vernon_l_jackson , who has pleaded guilty to trying to bribe him . fbi acknowledges it is first time it has raided a lawmaker 's capital hill offices . fbi raided jefferson 's homes in new_orleans and washington last year . jefferson has denied all wrongdoing .
 thousands of residents of japan 's niigata prefecture camp outdoors through the night , unnerved by day of aftershocks from earthquake on oct_23 that killed 23 people and injured 2,100 . one aftershock registers magnitude of 5.6 . military helicopters fly over landscape of crumpled highways and collapsed houses , ferrying survivors from mountain villages cut off by earthquake .
 txu_corp will abandon plans to build eight of 11 coal plants and commit to broad menu of environmental measures under proposed $ 45 billion buyout by private-equity firms kohlberg_kravis_roberts_&_co and texas_pacific_group . advisor and lender goldman_sachs_group is said to have brokered peace with environmental_groups_natural_resources_defense_council_and_environmental_defense , which were invited to offer recommendations to win their support for deal .
 editorial observes that two devastating bombings against british targets in turkey compound sense of siege already surrounding pres bush 's ` cocooned ' state visit to britain . notes turkey has now endured two days of terrorist outrages in single week . observes that such mass murders of innocent people deliver no coherent messages and advance no intelligible causes .
 federal agents break up human-smuggling ring based in new jersey . arrest brothers jose_luis and ignacio_notario on charges of illegally transmitting money and harboring illegal immigrants . detain 60 people after raids in union_city and hudson_county . ring 's operations involve mexican immigrants exclusively . investigators believe ring forces immigrant women into prostitution . officials care for 12 children of detainees .
 ronald steel comment on new biography of john_f_kennedy in which robert_dallek argues that lyndon_johnson misread kennedy 's intentions regarding vietnam and increased us commitment rather than seeking gradual withdrawal that kennedy may have intended . book , an unfinished life , cites newly available documents to maintain that kennedy instructed robert_mcnamara to chart possible withdrawal by 1965 . counter-arguments also quoted .
 metropolitan life plans to move 1,700 employees back to midtown manhattan from long_island_city , where they have been since 2001 . had promised to keep employees in queens through 2021 in exchange for tax breaks . bloomberg_administration reduces fine for leaving queens early to $ 5 million from possible $ 24 million on promise by met life to retain at least 1,750 employees in new_york_city until 2026 . critics of corporate tax breaks object as other companies seek similar deals .
 mississippi voters unseat democratic gov ronnie_musgrove in favor of haley_barbour , former chairman of republican_national_committee . republican repr ernie_fletcher , strong supporter of pres bush , easily defeats ben_chandler for governor of kentucky . photo . republicans will now have 29 governors ' offices . maine voters reject indian casino proposed for sanford . gov john_baldacci voices pride in their decision .
 american and iraqi officials say iraq 's oil industry , in remarkable turnaround , is now producing and exporting 2.3 million to 2.5 million barrels a day , close to prewar level of 2.8 million barrels . coalition official robert_mckee , leading american figure in drive to restore oil fields , says oil exports could give iraq $ 14 billion this year , up from $ 5 billion last year . challenges facing oil industry after it reverts to iraqi control noted .
 surveys by tns telecoms and yankee group show verizon has surpassed sprint_corp to become nation 's number 3 consumer long-distance carrier . verizon says company provides more households in us with primary long-distance service than does sprint . verizon is still behind sprint in terms of revenue from residential customers , indicating that many customers verizon has attracted are not heavy long-distance users . verizon remains bit player in providing long-distance services to businesses compared with sprint . at & t remains biggest long-distance carrier and worldcom remains in second place .
 poetry foundation awards landis_everson , 79 , its first-ever emily_dickinson first book award of $ 10,000 . prize is for writer over 50 who has never published a book . everson , who was among group of poets who became known as berkeley_renaissance_writers , comments on why he stopped writing poetry for 43 years and what prompted him to start again .
 ecuadoran roses , new status flower in united_states because of their beauty and size , are produced using pesticides , fungicides and fumigants that are sickening poor workers who toil in fields . roses help generate $ 240 million a year and tens of thousands of jobs in once-impoverished region of country . doctors and scientists say serious health problems have resulted for many of industry 's 50,000 workers , more than 70 percent of them women . researchers say their work is hampered by lack of access to flower farms because of reluctant growers . studies that international labor orgn published in 1999 and catholic univ issued in ecuador in 2002 show that women in industry have more miscarriages than average and that more than 60 percent of all workers suffer headaches , nausea , blurred vision or fatigue . st valentine 's day is biggest rose event in united_states , which is ecuador 's biggest trading partner .
 perception persists among pres bush 's most fervent critics that vice pres dick_cheney is de facto president , and clueless bush takes orders from him . bush 's advisers bristle at perception , but acknowledge it has benefits . say best commodity in politics is to be underestimated , and bush has been underestimated since he first ran for office . bush and cheney photo .
 boston scientific , with financial help from abbott_laboratories , offers $ 27 billion for guidant . guidant switches its support from johnson_&_johnson 's merger proposal in favor of boston scientific . further offer from johnson_&_johnson seems less likely after it suggests that deal between guidant and boston scientific would greatly reduce earnings of merged company .
 ibm reports solid profits in third_quarter , expresses measured optimism about outlook for technology spending and announces plans to hire 10,000 employees next year . reports earnings of $ 1.02 per diluted share , up from 99 cents in year-earlier_quarter . revenue increased 9 percent , to $ 21.5 billion . chief financial officer john_r_joyce_comments .
 pentagon draws up plans to send fresh troops quickly to iraq in case it decides it must keep 135,000 or more us soldiers deployed there beyond july . lack of new foreign troops and problems training iraqi forces cited . contingency plan disclosed by sec_donald_rumsfeld suggests delay in bringing back 20,000 troops is not temporary measure responding to flare in violence . photo of marines in falluja at tribute to slain cpl_daniel_r_amaya . gen richard_b_myers and asst sec_paul_wolfowitz_tell_senate_committee_pentagon may request more money . spain , honduras and dominican_republic are withdrawing forces . sec colin_powell says other countries he has called remain committed .
 dave_anderson sports of the times column discusses tom_watson , who is preparing for pga championship and could become first player to compete in nine majors in same year when he plays in jeld-wen tradition . watson is having one of his best years , despite dealing with ailing caddie bruce_edwards , who has lou_gehrig 's disease .
 republican presidential candidate john_mccain visits iowa in his first campaign event . skips senate debate on nonbinding resolution condemning pres bush 's plan for troop surge in iraq . gambles that his support for war will help him among select iowa republicans who will caucus next january . mccain 's position could help in primaries but complicate his prospects against antiwar democrat in general election .
 roma or gypsy rights groups say that up to 31 roma have been killed by diseases brought on by lead poisoning in three united_nations refugee camps in kosovo . camps are located within 200 yards of three huge mounds of industrial waste from former lead-smelting factory . children are particularly vulnerable to this kind of pollution . un mission in kosovo now plans to move families from all three camps to refurbished army barracks .
 arts briefing column . french police , for first time , reportedly will exhibit their files on pablo picasso at police museum in paris . fragmented copy of beyond the rocks , long-lost silent film starring gloria_swanson and rudolph_valentino and directed by sam_wood , is found in amsterdam 's film museum . nbc announces that nightly news anchor tom_brokaw will retire on december 1 . brian_williams will replace brokaw .
 iraq 's plague of violence shows no signs of abating , as us soldiers confront angry and vengeful iraqis and unpredictable attacks in sweltering heat . six us soldiers are wounded in two separate attacks , four iraqis are killed at checkpoints and huge explosion kills at least five people at mosque in falluja . abdullah mahmoud_al-khattab , chief of saddam_hussein 's tribe , is shot to death in tikrit .
 lawrence van gelder column reports on philadelphia_orchestra 's coming concert at carnegie_hall , last at hall with wolfgang_sawallisch as music director , opening of new_york_city ballet 's spring season , puppet production of barber of seville at st_anne_'s_warehouse_on_brooklyn_waterfront , and recital by biava quartet at alice_tully_hall .
 iraq 's month-old transitional government , keen to establish its authority after weeks of intensifying insurgent violence , announces that it plans to move up trial of saddam_hussein , bringing him to court this summer . prime min ibrahim al-jaafari gives strong endorsement of role played by ` multinational forces , ' formal name for 160,000 troops serving in iraq under american command , including about 140,000 americans and 20,000 in contingents from some 30 other nations .
 number of manhole fires in new_york_city increases each winter , as melted snow mixes with street salt , creating slushy mix that corrodes insulation of underground wires until insulation burns , releasing flammable gases . more than half of roughly 90,000 miles of underground wires are more than thirty years old . past week has seen fires and evacuations from east village to long_island_city and brooklyn .
 new_york_state , dispite pataki administration vow to reform adult homes for mentally ill , has let meyer_weber , new operator with checkered background , take over ocean_house , queens home where last two operators embezzled funds . move raises questions about pataki administration 's commitment to ensure that competent operators of good character run homes . over 100 privately run adult homes in ny shelter 15,000 mentally ill people in long-troubled system . state health department says weber has only temporary license to run home and his application for permanent one is pending . says it closely monitors situation to ensure residents get quality care .
 rosslyn_chapel , episcopal chapel built in 1446 in roslin , scotland , has always drawn legions of visitors eager to see its exquisite stone carvings , rich with christian , pagan and masonic images . this summer chapel is being visited by many readers of dan_brown 's theory-spinning book da vinci code , which claims chapel hides secret directions to holy grail itself . their visits have boosted visitor numbers to chapel by 56 percent .
 violent rampage in wisconsin woods that left six white hunters dead and hmong immigrant from st paul in jail affects two vastly different communities . photos . wisconsin mourners trudge through falling snow to grieve , while across state line in minnesota thousands of hmong immigrants stream into downtown st paul_auditorium for three days of new year 's festivities . st paul has over three decades drawn at least 25,000 hmongs , who come with little education or job skills , and have nothing in common with people of northern_wisconsin except for love of hunting . hmong elders have come to see hunting as chance to share old customs and complain of harassment by white hunters . people in wisconsin , stunned by killings , deny hostility .
 mack-cali_realty has been chosen to handle $ 1.3 billion redevelopment of meadowlands continental arean site in joint venture with mills_corp . mack-cali and mills proposal to build entertainment and convention venue called xanadu was chosen over two other entries by new jersey sports and exposition authority -- and then withstood court challenge by rival developer hartz_mountain_industries . mack-cali chief executive mitchell_e_hersh comments .
 adel hussein , illegal palestinian worker , is expelled from israel into west_bank , but his son , israeli_army sgt muhammad_hussein , takes him back into israel . adel_hussein , with help of his son and ex-wife stella_peretz , has tried for years to get permission to live in israel . it is not known what effect his return might have on his legal case , or his son .
 article on aids epidemic in zambia . government treats 600 patients for minimal fee but others must purchase drugs privately at market prices . kasango kabaso , 37-year-old hiv-positive father , purchases anti-retroviral drugs for himself but not for hiv-positive daughter because he is unable to afford $ 50 each month for both of them , and he must stay alive to support his family . government plans to expand program to serve 20,000-30,000 people , using $ 135 million grants from world_bank and global fund to fight aids . nearly 20 percent of adults in zambia are infected with hiv while there are currently 570,000 aids orphans .
 improbable , botched coup in equatorial_guinea is black eye for britain because several upper-crust britons have been implicated , including former prime min margaret_thatcher 's son , sir mark_thatcher . he was arrested by south african police on charges of illegally helping to finance coup . two of his fellow etonians are also linked to plot : simon_mann , now in prison in zimbabwe , and jeffrey_h_archer , best-selling author and former deputy chairman of britain 's conservative party . all three reject any role in plans to overthrow teodoro_obiang_nguema_mbasoga . his government is among africa 's most repressive , but alleged coup-plotters were said to be more interested in country 's oil production . plot fell apart after south african intelligence tipped off obiang and zimbabwe police .
 moveon.org , internet group to which billionaire george_soros is giving millions in order to defeat pres bush in 2004 , is embraced by democrats as new model of political organization , one that departs from one-way tools of influence like television commercials and talk radio to interactive dialogue , offering people voice in process that once seemed beyond their reach . republicans view soros 's support of moveon as end run around campaign finance laws . organization was founded by wes_boyd and wife joan_blades in 1998 to protest impeachment of pres bill_clinton and has grown into bottom-up organization that has inserted itself into political process in ways large and small .
 city of buffalo , ny , in ambitious steps to reclaim its frank_lloyd_wright heritage , is undertaking $ 25 million restoration of darwin_d_martin_house , part of prairie-style complex built in 1905 . wisconsin architect anthony_puttnam , former wright apprentice , is involved in three new projects in city based on preliminary sketches by wright -- boathouse on niagara_river , blue sky mausoleum at forest lawn cemetery and gas station .
 foreign min li zhaoxing of china firmly rejects japanese calls for china to apologize for wave of violent protests against japan and to pay compensation for damage to diplomatic and commercial property during three weekends of anti-japan protests in beijing . japanese foreign min nobutaka_machimura , on one-day visit to beijing , calls protests ` deeply deplorable ' . relations between china and japan are at lowest point in decade as two feud over access to oil and gas reserves in east china sea .
 fbi agent deborah s bond tells jury that i lewis_libby jr ` claimed ' during formal interviews that he had not disclosed to two reporters identity of valerie_plame_wilson , central_intelligence_agency operative . takes stand after jury had already heard testimony from reporters judith_miller and matthew_cooper confirming that libby had disclosed identity of wilson .
 international labor organization says at least 12.3 million people worldwide work as slaves or in other forms of forced labor , 2.5 million of them having been trafficked across borders and 1.2 million in sex trade . author lee_swepston notes trafficking increase as border controls ease , especially in europe , and more women are victimized .
 marines withdraw from most positions they took during three-week siege of falluja , as us military begins handing over control of security there to jasim_muhammad_saleh , former iraqi general under saddam_hussein and up to 1,100 men under his command . suicide bomber kills two marines and wounds six others . over 1,000 iraqis in najaf protest against bush administration 's decision to loosen ban on participation in government by members of once-ruling baath party .
 jonathan_fuerbringer column says first week of corporate earnings reports have been more negative than positive for stock market , which have declined for first two weeks of new year . says investors appear to have adopted a show-me attitude , with many believing that 2005 will witness some kind of shock -- anything from terrorist attack to more inflation .
 last of five articles in series on the brink , about diseases that are extinct in developed world but persist in some poor nations . united nations children 's fund estimates that nepal 's first national measles vaccination campaign last year cut measles-related deaths by 90 percent from average of about 5,000 children per year . success is in remarkable contrast to neighboring india , where experts estimate that more than 100,000 children die every year from complications of measles for want of 15-cent vaccine .
 south_korea 's fair_trade_commission says it will conduct investigation of six of nation 's largest conglomerates , known as chaebol , on suspicion of illegal securities transactions meant to help conglomerates ' founding families pass wealth to heirs . names samsung , sk , lg and hyundai automotive groups as principal offenders . investigation will also cover hyundai_heavy_industries and hyundai group .
 somali bantu refugees living in kenya , or about 12,000 people , are being prepared for resettlement in us over next two years as one of largest refugee groups to receive blanket permission for resettlement since mid-1990 ` s . are members of africa 's lost tribe -- stolen from shores of mozambique , malawi and tanzania and carried on arab slave ships to somalia two centuries ago . were enslaved and persecuted until somali civil war scattered them to refugee camps in 1990 's . were often denied access to education and jobs in somalia . are mostly illiterate and almost completely untouched by modern life . are taking classes to prepare them for new lives in us .
 article on expansion of blue_man_group , which started out as experimental performance-art trio 14 years ago in manhattan 's east_village . blue man group shows can be seen in manhattan , chicago , boston , toronto and berlin and blue man theater , 1,760-seat complex , is set to open at venetian hotel in las_vegas .
 parents can transfer their children from dangerous to safer schools under no child left behind act , but 44 states have set legal threshold for danger so high that no schools fit definition . only new jersey , new_york , nevada , oregon , pennsylvania and texas have identified some 50 schools as meeting criteria of dangerous . several incidents in schools described . congress will convene hearings to determine how state governments developed regulations .
 ricky_rodriguez , son of leader of 1960 's cult called children of god , stabbed to death his former nanny angela_smith in tucson , ariz , on jan 8 , and then drove across border and shot and killed himself in blythe , calif . murder-suicide is reviving accusations by former cult members about routine physical , emotional and sexual abuse they say they experienced as children . rodriguez 's mother , karen_zerby , still leads cult , which is now called family international . david_brandt_berg , founder of children of god , died in 1994 .
 joshua_b_bolten , new_white_house chief of staff , raises possibility of moving harriet_e_miers from her job as pres bush 's counsel as part of continuing shake-up of west_wing . republicans say that tony snow , commentator for fox_news and former speechwriter for pres bush 's father , is in negotiations for job of white_house_press secretary . he would replace scott_mcclellan .
 recent terror alert concerning threats to financial centers in new_york , newark and washington shows new strengths of coordinated response system but underscores increased reliance on foreign sources of information . experts question whether bush administration damaged its credibility by late acknowledgement that ` high risk ' alert was based on new intelligence from pakistan about al qaeda reconnaissance missions three or four years ago . question reinforces calls for restructuring of intelligence system .
 david_carr column on subpoenas and the press . focuses on hearst_corp general counsel eve burton 's preparations to appeal federal judge_jeffrey_s_white 's decision to sentence san_francisco chronicle reporters lance_williams and mark_fainaru-wada to up to 18 months in jail for their refusal to reveal who leaked grand jury information in balco steroids case . burton says culture of press as independent body is now under attack and if this continues , will come to be seen as investigative arm of government . says her company has received 80 newsgathering subpoenas in last_18_months .
 experts offer advice on whether and how eastman_kodak can thrive in world of digital photography . comments from eugene_h_fram , marketing professor , mitchell_b_goldstone , owner of photo special store , mayor william_a_johnson jr of rochester , where kodak is based , ulysses_yannas , photography analyst , anthony_m_maramarco , investment banker , and judy_hopelain , marketing executive .
 gen augusto_pinochet , ruler in chile from 1973 to 1990 , is questioned by investigating judge in santiago about his involvement in coordinated effort by six south american military governments to hunt down and kill exiled political opponents in 1970 's . judge asks only half of his questions when session is cut short because pinochet , 88 and ailing , grows tired .
 crescent heights united_methodist_church in west_hollywood , calif , is able to boost its anemic membership by using broadway tunes , in program called golden age of broadway . rev john_griffin , minister_of_church , endured six months of empty pews before turning to laurie_franks , his music director and veteran of 14 broadway shows . church does music from mame , oklahoma , the sound of music , les_miserables and man of la_mancha .
 defense shows tape of 1999 meeting between john_a_gotti and his imprisoned father john_j_gotti in which , defense says , john_a_gotti withdraws from life of organized crime before being indicted in current case . time element is crucial to current case because prosecution must show gotti committed at least one final act of racketeering in five years before being indicted .
 refugees from north_korea are offered welcome by officials in russia 's far_east , who are alarmed by 17 percent decline in region 's population during 1990 's . it is unclear whether government in moscow , which controls immigration policy , will want to risk increasing regional tensions and racial insecurities among russians in far_east . refugees international says russian proposal shows willingness to share some of burden and could be building block for dealing with humanitarian problem of north_korea .
 article on william_labrador , who has returned to southampton , ny , after spending more than three years in prison on tortola for murder of lois_livingston_mcmillen . labrador , who maintains his innocence and says he is $ 500,000 in debt , is planning book , documentary based on family 's video diary and is discussing possible movie deal . his lawyers are working on lawsuit against government of british virgin_islands .
 true baseball fans and those who play for fun or in school are eager for season to begin . michael_hoban plays for senior league softball team in lakewood , nj , and will go for first time to florida for spring training . mike_delacy jr plays for his school in harrison , ny , and gets lessons through cold winter months to hone his skills for spring .
 iran 's grand ayatollah_hossein_ali_montazeri , freed from shackles of house arrest after five years , speaks to visitors , including delegation of parliament deputies and hundreds of men and women who rotate in and out of warehouse-like auditorium , qum . montazeri , 80 , learned cleric and reformist , is overtly hostile to iran 's conservative clerical establishment , scoring them for their repression and for trying to silence him , interview . calls harsh sentences given political prisoners by two special courts ` baseless . ` urges courts be disbanned and all political prisoners freed . holds ayatollah_ali_khamenei is not infallible and could be challenged by parliament . continues to oppose united_states foreign policy .
 members of extended ford_motor_co family will meet oct_19 in detroit area for regularly scheduled , twice-yearly meeting , in large part to check up on financial health of company . chairman william_clay_ford jr has said that on oct 20 , as company reports its third-quarter results , he will disclose new details of his latest plan to restore company . anne ford , first cousin of william_ford , says it depressing , referring to auto industry 's malaise .
 port authority of new_york and new jersey , developer larry_a_silverstein and pataki administration continue negotiations over who is to build what and when at world trade center site . one plan under consideration would turn control of building freedom tower over to port authority and let silverstein retain right to develop what are considered most lucrative sites . proponents say deal could result in construction of freedom tower , memorial , large shopping mall and three other towers on site by 2011 .
 arnold schwarzenegger 's name is removed from stadium in graz , austria , his home town , by city officials horrified that he rejected pleas to spare life of stanley_tookie_williams , former gang leader who was executed by state of california two weeks ago . for years graz trumpeted its special relationship with schwarzenegger . some critics accuse leftist majority on city_council for trying to score local political points at schwarzenegger 's expense . schwarzenegger himself made pre-emptive strike , asking that his name be withdrawn from stadium and noting there will be other death penalty decisions ahead for him .
 sandra_jetton , former marketing executive for citibank and chase manhattan , and her husband , david_picker , veteran movie producer and onetime head of united_artists , now live year round in what used to be their weekend_house in bethel , ny , two and half hours from manhattan . visit their manhattan apartment a few times a month .
 new swell of insurgent violence in baghdad includes car bomb explosion and rocket attack on hotel used by foreigners . deadly attacks also hit in mosul and falluja , showing that insurgency is still robust and its anger still raging despite formal transfer of sovereignty to interim iraqi government and formal beginning of iraqi legal proceedings against saddam_hussein . in najaf , militiamen loyal to moktada_al-sadr agree to trade 16 policemen they captured this week for two insurgents jailed by government . 9 other policemen remain in hands of militia .
 air france airbus a340-300 arriving from paris skids off runway at pearson_international_airport in toronto and bursts into flames , but all 309 people on board escape without single serious injury . landing occurs two hours after airport suspended most takeoffs because of severe weather . witnesses on ground report intense lightning bolts and strong wind moments before accident .
 episode last month in norwalk , conn , in which two bicycle riders were injured , one seriously , exposed intricacies and technological challenges facing new_york metropolitan region 's enhanced 911 system as well as flaws in suffolk_county 's response to out-of-state 911 calls . 911 cell phone call made by fellow bicyclist adrienne_pincus was sent first to greenlawn , ny , then to yaphank , where authorities suggested she dial ` 0 ' to reach operator to connect her to 911 . suffolk authorities have since announced new policy in which cellphone calls from connecticut would be transferred to connecticut_state_police .
 two f-16 pilots who killed four canadian soldiers in mistaken air strike in afghanistan last_year apologize to families of dead and wounded , but take pains to defend their own actions . remarks are made at hearing that could lead to their court-martial on homicide charges . pilots are maj william_umbach and maj harry_schmidt , members of illinois_air_national_guard who were on active duty with air_force .
 article on prospects of walt_disney_co president robert_a_iger succeeding michael_d_eisner as chief executive of company . holds iger may be hurt by his performance when he was overseeing abc , where he had his ups and downs . but more important , friends , analysts and associates say , is whether he has differentiated himself enough from eisner , who has become lightning rod for many of disney 's troubles . says iger can not be seen as disloyal to eisner , but at same time he does not want to be too closely associated with him , either , since disgruntled investors voted 45 percent of their shares earlier this year against keeping eisner on board .
 american rivers , conservation group , places housatonic_river , which flows through connecticut to long_island sound from massachusetts border , seventh on its list of 10 most endangered rivers in united_states . cites critical decisions that are expected to be made in coming months about cleaning up toxic pcb 's downriver from old general_electric transformer factory in pittsfield , mass .
 article on turf battle over homeland security brewing in trenton between new jersey counterterrorism chief sidney_caspersen and state attorney general peter_harvey . legislature 's republicans and democrats are lining up for fight over who will have ultimate authority over terrorism-related intelligence in state as well as administration of $ 8.6 million budget and about 75 employees .
 new_york_state_appeals_court dismisses four of six counts against former new_york_stock_exchange chairman richard_grasso . ruling may make it more difficult for state to force him to return large portion of $ 190 million compensation package . rulings dispute claim brought by then attorney general eliot_spitzer arguing that pay was unreasonable under new_york state laws . current attorney general andrew_cuomo is expected to appeal decision .
 maricopa_county , ariz , atty richard_m_romley says he probes bishop thomas_j_o'brien 's activities in hours before fatal hit-and-run accident to determine whether o'brien was impaired by alcohol or drugs when officials say he struck pedestrian jim_reed , news conference . accident is widely expected to end phoenix bishop 's career .
 inspectors from new_york_state_transportation_department and state and village police officers , conducting random truck inspections in hempstead , order seven of 12 off the road within three hour period for violations . thousands of other trucks with safety problems are not caught , and some are involved in accidents . representatives of national and new_york state trucking associations say they support roadside inspections and standardized regulations . say shippers who load trucks are often at fault for overloading .
 retailers , concerned about rising gas prices and pair of hurricanes will spoil crucial holiday shopping season , are already planning broad markdowns to lure cost-conscious consumers into their stores . wal-mart begins cutting prices on some popular toys . harris_nesbitt_analyst_john_d_morris says apparel retailers ranging from gap to talbots will offer bigger discounts earlier in holiday shopping season . goldman_sachs retail composite index shows retail sales rose 3.9 percent in last month in stores open at least year .
 hewlett-packard announces that it will lay off 14,500 workers , nearly 10 percent of its workforce , over next 10 months as part of revamping plan that company 's executives hope wll turn around struggling fortunes of giant computer and printer maker . cuts come four months into tenure of mark v hurd , who took over as chief executive on april 1 . company announces that starting jan 1 , it will no longer contribute to pension plans of its employees in united_staets . hurd comments .
 new iraqi cabinet is sworn into office with at least six positions still undecided after days of polarizing negotiations , in striking display of divisions that have plagued iraq 's fledgling government . sheik ghazi_al-yawar , one of two vice presidents , refuses to attend ceremony after leading efforts to name candidates for defense_ministry and two other vacant positions allotted to sunni arabs . threatened to boycott ceremony if shiite leaders continue to block sunni nominees to defense_ministry . prime min ibrahim_al-jaafari , plays down sheik yawar 's absence .
 new_york_city 's economy rebounds sharply as wall street financial markets rise and foreign tourists flock to city to take advantage of weak dollar . unemployment rate for november drops to 5.4 percent from 6.1 percent in october and 6.3 percent in november 2003 and is same as national rate , which is usually lower than city 's .
 david_carr column on success of bob and harvey_weinstein , who gave up miramax_name and library to walt_disney_co , in lining up $ 500 million in equity investment in their new film company , weinstein_co . notes that with another $ 500 million in debt , weinsteins will have billion dollars with which to compete with major studios . says downturn in movie business may work to weinsteins ' advantage .
 new_york_city police question stephen_sakai in shooting at manhattan nightclub opus 22 that left gustavo_cuadros dead and three others wounded . sakai is bouncer at opus 22 . incident is second in recent months in which bouncers have been implicated in death of patrons , leading city officials to seek to tighten oversight of bouncers and crack down on clubs .
 nation 's multibillion-dollar pornography film industry virtually shuts itself down after producers learn that at least two x-rated actors have been infected with hiv virus . most of major companies in adult-movie industry agree to halt filming for 60 days so that performers who worked with infected actors can be tested . darren_james , first of two performers known to have been infected , appears to have passed it on to at least one of 12 actresses he worked with in los_angeles .
 israel puts up new fence around northern side of ghajar along lebanese border to keep out hezbollah attackers . villagers see new occupation and worsening of tensions over shabaa farms area nearby . alawites there chose in 1932 to be part of syria and got israeli citizenship after 1967 . town was officially divided when israel pulled out in 2000 , and un officials say villagers , more affluent than neighbors , have sought to be part of israel .
 democrats capture two bronx-based seats from republicans in new_york_state_senate , putting them closer to goal of ending republicans ' longtime dominance . legislature leaders republican sen joseph_bruno and democratic assembly speaker sheldon are re-elected easily . republican sen nicholas_spano faces strong challenge from andrea_stewart-cousins in westchester and sen nancy_larraine_hoffmann , ten-term incumbent who became republican in 1998 , is losing to democrat david_j_valesky in syracuse . vast majority of incumbents win , despite public irritation at continual gridlock in albany .
 jury convicts christopher_pittman , 15 , of killing his grandparents in rural chester_county , sc , when he was 12 years old . rejects argument that antidepressant zoloft was cause of pittman 's violent behavior . pittman is sentenced to 30 years in prison . his father and other relatives warn parents to be cautious about giving their children psychoactive drugs .
 wal-mart stores reports 3.8 percent rise in third-quarter earnings , to $ 2.4 billion , smallest quarterly profit increase in four years , but predicts strong holiday sales on strength of aggressive marketing campaign . says sales for quarter rose to $ 75.4 billion from $ 68.5 billion a year earlier . attributes drag on third-quarter earnings to several one-time costs , including store closings caused by hurricanes and higher costs of fueling its large trucks .
 profile of beleaguered boutique hotelier ian_schrager , co-owner of ian_schrager hotels . company has refinanced $ 16 million loan to renovate miramar resort in santa_barbara , calif , and lenders have agreed in principle to extend loans on royalton and morgans in new_york , delano in miami_beach and mondrian in west_hollywood .
 new york advances to final stage of selection process for 2012 summer olympics , but ranks fourth in international_olympic_committee 's technical assessment , behind paris , madrid and london , and ahead of moscow . four other cities are ruled out . mayor michael_bloomberg and gov george_pataki celebrate in bryant_park . photo . new_york 's ranking reflects concerns about transportation , security , plans for athletes ' village and financing .
 new york daily news and new_york post clash over which tabloid is no . 1 in circulation in new_york metropolitan area based on data released by audit_bureau_of_circulations . the new_york_times reports 3.5 percent decline in circulation and times-owned boston_globe reports 6.7 percent decline . audit bureau reports 2.8 percent decline in overall daily circulation for all newspapers , steepest in recent history .
 joseph_galloway , 19-year-old inmate at texas_youth_commission_detention_center in crockett , says he was molested at 15 by female corrections officer at detention center in giddings and later raped by fellow inmate as guard stood by . his account is among about 150 new complaints that have emerged from 44 secure state schools , halfway houses and residential youth car programs in texas as result of several overlapping inquiries into accusations of sexual abuse and other mistreatment there .
 palestinian militants in gaza_strip stage three kidnappings , seizing four french aid workers and two palestinian security officials . release french captives and ghazi_al-jabali , chief of palestinian police in gaza . are still holding other official . rash of abductions reflect rampant lawlessness and internal palestinian feuding in gaza and is seen as challenge to yasir_arafat 's authority .
 middle east peace plan introduced two weeks ago brings no letup in daily violence . israeli troops shoot five palestinians to death , wound more than 30 and arrest 15 suspected militants during army raids throughout west_bank and gaza_strip . israeli forces are encountering resistance , ranging from stonethrowing teenagers to militants firing antitank rockets .
 analysis of recently released new_york_city housing and vacancy survey shows new_york_city housing market flourished between 1999 and 2002 , with sharp rise in market rents in most of city . rents of more than million apartments are still set by government regulation , but stock of rent-regulated housing is gradually eroding . in that period , 32,000 units , or 3 percent , were removed from regulation upon vacancy . survey , conducted by census_bureau_every three years , was established to determine apartment vacancy rate under law that would end rent stabilization if vacancy rate exceeds 5 percent . portrays changes in housing markets in neighborhoods across city .
 20 public or private buildings have been built or renovated on or near lake_champlain waterfront in burlington , vt , for total public-private investment that exceeds $ 128 million . waterfront was once wasteland of abandoned junk and railroad yards , old oil tanks and closed utility buildings . area projects include 127-room marriott hotel and 32 adjacent condominiums .
 lebanon 's parliament , dominated by pro-syrian deputies , elects omar_karami prime minister nine days after he resigned under pressure from opponents of syria 's occupation . move angers those who had sought end to syrian influence in lebanon and throws political system into deeper turmoil . syria seems now to have regained initiative , emboldened by huge pro-syrian rally in downtown beirut led by hezbollah . pres bush dismisses syria 's partial troop pullback and again demands syria withdraw intelligence officers along with soldiers .
 thousands of iraqis rally around nation in tightly marshaled show of definance for united_states . baghdad demonstration apparently was organized to show pres bush american troops may face resistance in iraq . many at rallies were ordered to attend . rallies , despite curiously desultry moody , show saddam_hussein has impressive organizational ability and power to compel compliance .
 senate is expected to approve two-month extension for federal_commission investigating sept 11 terrorist attacks , with members and republican lawmakers vowing to pressure speaker j dennis_hastert not to block vote in house . photo . bush administration has agreed to extra time for report but hastert spoke with white_house on subject and democratic_house leader nancy_pelosi says she assumes he is doing ` heavy lifting ' for administration that never wanted commission in first place .
 sir jeremy_greenstock , british security council ambassador who debated merits of iraq war , is leaving united_nations for new post as britain 's ranking official in iraq . will work with american administrator l paul_bremer 3d to try to stitch iraq 's civil society back together . during security council debate over war in iraq , he spent hours looking for consensus . his efforts at compromise on iraq resolution were not always welcomed in washington .
 new_york gubernatorial aspirant william f weld has set state republican politics astir with contention that in 1996 he received $ 750,000 contribution for his senate campaign in massachusetts from sen alfonse d ' amato along with expletive-filled tirade about weld_protege_robert_s_mueller_iii . mueller oversaw federal fraud investigation of d ' amato 's brother armand in early 1990 's . d ' amato denies encounter ever occurred , and there is no hard evidence to support either man 's story . d ' amato may be actively seeking to thwart weld , offering praise for weld 's democratic challenger atty gen eliot spitzer .
 atlantic_coast_airlines ' new low-fare carrier independence air begins flights from its hub at washington_dulles_international_airport to boston , newark , chicago , atlanta and raleigh-durham , nc . atlantic_coast is in unique situation in industry , transforming itself from partner to low-fare player . independence air , using same regional jets it flew for united_airlines and delta_air_lines , will take on its old partners , relying on its 15 years of experience flying for them .
 roger_cohen article contends that during its first term , bush administration held that only regional democratic transformation beginning in iraq and extending to corrupt and terror-tainted palestinian authority could unlock door to israeli-palestinian settlement . maintains that with yasir araft comatose in paris hospital and iraq mired in conflict , question being asked is should administration adjust its approach to israel and put peace in jerusalem first .
 political memo on gov george_pataki and mayor michael_bloomberg dividing up pieces of manhattan where each will pursue own redevelopment vision , far west side for bloomberg and lower manhattan for pataki . photo . mayor believes expansion of javits_convention_center and new football stadium will lead to revitalization of forgotten neighborhood in west 30 's from ninth avenue to hudson_river . pataki believes planning for world trade center site will focus international attention on city and , by proxy , himself as continuous governmental link since sept 11 attacks .
 ben_brantley critic 's notebook on tom_stoppard play rock ` n ' roll , which is part of royal_court 's 50th anniversary celebration . play follows entwined fortunes of cambridge professor , played by brian_cox , and his student disciple , played by rufus_sewell . holds that while play has typical stoppard cerebral elements , infusion of rock anthems into plot give it kind of heart and passion not normally present in stoppard 's work .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column criticizes china for not being more assertive in pressing iraq and north_korea to end their illicit arms programs , arguing that china , which exports 40 percent of its exports to us , would be crippled economically if us were to severely restrict its openness to world market in event of another 9/11 attack , a bad war in iraq or firing of north korean missile at us .
 long island journal column : profile of jourdan_urbach , 11 , of roslyn , violin prodigy , novelist and founder and main performer of musical charity , children helping children . jourdan says his interests include music and writing and that he plans to be neurosurgeon . stephen_bello , 44 , chairman of board_of_american_culinary_federation 's long_island chapter , is executive chef at south_nassau_communities_hospital in oceanside .
 william_safire op-ed column on television network lobbying to squelch bipartisan moves in congress to nullify fcc 's decision to allow big companies to acquire more independent stations . reports networks were foiled when repr frank_wolf urged republican colleagues to vote their consciences , and amendment to hold ownership cap at 35 percent of national audience was passed by vote of 40 to 25 .
 two-day strike begins at 48 general_electric locations in 23 states , where 17,000 workers are protesting company 's decision to force them to pay what it estimates as $ 200 more a year toward their health costs . officials of two striking unions , which represent 17,000 employees , say cost will be nearly double that amount and say move is unjustified in light of company 's strong profits . woman picketing near ge appliance factor in louisvile , ky , dies after being hit by police car .
 portland , ore , is planning ceremony to revisit moment 100 years ago when pres theodore_roosevelt gave speech about great pioneers of pacific_northwest and put time capsule into cornerstone of monument to lewis and clark . roosevelt 's great-grandson theodore_roosevelt iv plans to re-enact moment , but box can not be found . contents of box noted . cornerstone was placed in ground about three years before monument was built . historians say there is no telling where block might be .
 campaign for 2006 attorney general election in new_york is already rolling , set off by atty gen eliot_spitzer 's hints that he may run for governor . among those who would like to succeed spitzer are assemblyman michael_n_gianaris , assemblyman jeffrey_klein , charlie_king , two-time candidate for lieutenant governor , as well as mark green and state sen michael a l balboni .
 profile of hikaru_nakamura , 17-year-old new_york_city chess master who won america 's foundation for chess_united_states championsip at age 16 , making him youngest player to hold title since legendary bobby_fischer won in 1957 . nakamura began playing chess at age 7 and was awarded rank of national master by united_states_chess_federation at age 10 . hopes to become world champion , following footsteps of fischer .
 william_grimes reviews recent books about pirates : the pirate wars by peter_earle , the barbary wars : american independence in the atlantic world by frank_lambert , the pirate coast : thomas_jefferson , the first marines , and the secret mission of 1805 by richard_zacks , the pirates lafitte : the treacherous world of the corsairs of the gulf by william_c_davis , pirattitude : so you wan na be a pirate . here 's how ! by john_baur and mark_summers , pirates of pensacola by keith_thomson , pirate by ted_bell and fan-tan by marlon_brando and donald_cammell .
 aide to gov george e pataki confirms that governor flew to st bart 's with his wife on private jet owned by earle i mack , but says mack was reimbursed for two first-class plane tickets from new_york . mack is senior partner in mack-cali_realty_corp and is donor to republicans and pataki campaigns . neither he nor his company does significant business with state .
 article profiles sirius_satellite_radio , which has signed deals with shock jock howard_stern and national_football_league . sirius , with 600,000 subscribers compared with 2.5 million for xm_satellite_radio , has decidedly garden state tinge . programmer kid kelly is from hackensack , geronimo lives in jersey city and disc jockeys vin_scelsa and pat st john are also from new jersey .
 donnie_fowler jr , simon_rosenberg , howard_dean , timothy_j_roemer , wellington webb , martin_frost and rev al_sharpton , seeking to become democratic party head , appear before fourth and final forum for democratic leaders to talk about what needs to be done to fix party . racial division and current vacuum of personality and power have resulted in first real competitive contest since 1988 .
 auction of postwar and contemporary art at sotheby 's in new_york ends with sale of all 60 works offered for total of $ 65.6 million . 22 paintings sell for $ 1 million or more . 12 lots belong to peter_brant , and one of them , 1961 roy_lichtenstein painting , goes for $ 5.1 million , highest price of evening .
 singing for a tony * * on stage and off column . speculation on tony nominations noted . primary stages , moving to new theater on east 59th street , will present a r gurney 's strictly academic , terrence_mcnally 's new play the stendahl syndrome and julie_jordan play boy . mary-louise_parker to star in revival of craig_lucas play reckless , part of second stage 's 25th-anniversary season . parker also appeared in film version . photo . lewis j stadlen to replace brad_oscar as max in the producers , don_stephenson to replace roger_bart as leo_bloom . american magic , surreal off-broadway drama by gil_kofman , set for altered stages .
 senate votes , 51 to 45 , to approve $ 2.4 trillion budget resolution for 2005 that could imperil pres bush 's drive to make all his tax cuts permanent while it tries to shrink federal deficit faster than white_house proposes . vote comes after budget deliberations break down in house following rebellion by republicans who demand that party leaders take tougher actions to control spending . senate budget is similar to white_house proposal but calls for slower growth in spending and , after five years , deficit $ 56 billion lower than administration plan .
 santiago calatrava unveils model of world trade center path terminal . soaring steel and glass structure will let in flood of light throughout building and onto platforms . will occasionally open its retractable roof above cathedral-like concourse connecting path trains with 14 subway lines . construction on project , which may cost up to $ 2 billion , will begin in early 2005 and take four years to complete .
 british government gives final approval for recovery of shipwreck off gibraltar that is believed to be hms sussex , which went down in storm in 1694 with gold coins on board that could fetch as much as $ 4 billion today . odyssey marine exploration inc of tampa , fla , found wreck during four expeditions from 1998 to 2001 .
 harvard_university_endowment , largest of any university 's , reached $ 22.6 billion by june 30 , with help of 21.1 percent return on its investments . returns are expected to be among highest of any university for fiscal year . results may stifle brouhaha over amount harvard pays its money managers , which raised hackles of alumni when it became known that two managers had earned about $ 35 million each in previous fiscal year . investment performance of other universities noted .
 metropolitan television alliance signs agreement with larry_a_silverstein to install as many as 22 antennas atop freedom tower at planned world trade center site , which will be completed in 2008 . broadcasters ' architects , kohn_pedersen_fox_associates , will work with studio daniel_libeskind , designer of freedom tower , and silverstein 's architects , skidmore , owings_&_merrill .
 canonical trial of msgr charles_m_kavanagh starts in mill_creek , pa , headquarters of erie archdiocese . kavanagh has been fighting archdiocese of new_york over charges that he sexually abused daniel_donohue , student he supervised over 20 years ago . cardinal edward_m_egan had venue changed to avoid publicity . procedures for full church trial described .
 five former leaders of holy land foundation , once biggest islamic charity in us , are arrested on charges of funneling $ 12.4 million to palestinian terrorists . two other officials recently left us while under criminal investigation . former president shukri_abu_baker , arrested in dallas , denies giving money to hamas . atty gen john_ashcroft announces arrests that officials say are among most important since sept 11 attacks in efforts to stem flow of money from us to terrorists .
 master copy of working draft of book alcoholics anonymous once belonging to aa co-founder william_wilson is sold at sotheby 's auction for $ 1.576 million to classic book collector . seven of 12 members of editorial board and at least eight of 11 contributing editors reportedly resign from american scholar in protest over impending departure of editor anne_fadiman .
 new jersey sports and exposition authority selects plan proposed by mall_developer_mills_corp and office developer mack_cali_realty_corp for project called meadowlands xanadu to replace continental_airlines_arena . decision ends contentious selection process that began in sept 2002 and heated up in recent weeks as two leading finalists waged publicity war . details of deal will be negotiated within next two to three months and project could be completed within six years . plan is to turn area into family destination featuring sports , entertainment , shopping , lodging and offices . specifics of proposal discussed .
 japan , second largest contributor to un , will cut support by one-quarter in coming years . country accounts for 14.4 percent of global economy and pays 19.5 percent of un budget , whereas us accounts for 30 percent of world gross domestic product and pays 22 percent of un costs . japanese are also angered at not getting permanent seat on security council .
 time warner and its bidding partner , comcast , reach tentative deal to acquire adelphia_communications for nearly $ 18 billion in cash and stock . adelphia has been in bankruptcy protection since 2002 . tentative deal would give time_warner and comcast control of adelphia 's 5.3 million subscribers in 31 states , including systems around los_angeles and in upstate_new_york .
 many state legislatures in us have passed laws that bar their public pension funds from investing in companies with ties to sudan , which has been accused of extensive human rights abuses in long-running civil war . us state_department has also labeled sudan state sponsor of terrorism . states that have passed laws include california , new jersey and oregon . louisiana has approved legislation that permits , but does not require , its public funds to shed investments linked to sudan . some companies that have ties to sudan discussed .
 gov jon_s_corzine 's office asks new jersey 's inspector general to investigate why encap_golf , subsidiary of cherokee_investment_partners , was allowed to receive tens of millions of dollars in state support for project in meadowlands that it has not yet begun to develop . two state legislators ask state attorney general to investigate possible improprieties in financial arrangement with encap .
 clash of cultures may have been driving force behind arson in upscale new subdivision in charles_county , maryland , that damaged 26 new houses . profiles of aaron speed , michael_everhart , michael_gilbert , jeremy_parady , roy_t_mccann and patrick_walsh , blue collar youths charged in incident . prosecutors are stymied , as there appears to be no clear-cut motive for arson , rather undercurrent of resentment toward encroachment of new construction . lawyers for men deny existence of any gang and say clear picture has yet to emerge .
 court records indicate that motive for murder of robert_stears , barry_rossi and lorne_stevens at b_&_b_automotive_shop -lrb- conn -rrb- , where they worked , may have been love triangle . jose_guzman and two others are charged with killing stears and two of his employees as part of murder-for-hire plot involving stears 's wife shelly .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on washington buzz about pres bush 's amiable greeting for bill and hillary_clinton at white_house unveiling of their official portraits . wonders if republican bigwigs have decided they prefer bush to be sunnier and less churlish in face of iraq reverses . suggests they regret replacing formerly affable dick_cheney with ` macabre automaton ' who keeps repeating that saddam_hussein and al_qaeda were linked , even as contrary evidence piles up .
 army_corps_of_engineers says work is on track to restore new_orleans 's flood protection system to its pre-hurricane strength by june 1 , but other groups are offering their own competing proposals that they say could be cheaper , faster or stronger . bring new_orleans back commission has proposed add-ons that complement current plans . american society of civil engineers has offered far-reaching recommendations . corps has embarked on two-year , $ 8 million study to determine how to strengthen system for new_orleans and southern louisiana .
 new wave of municipal gardeners helps to rescue new_york_city parks from years of theft and neglect . gardeners , some paid with private money and some with public , are to large extent responsible for stunning transformations of city 's parks in recent years . city now has 73 gardeners and assistant gardeners , up from 21_five years ago . five are in harlem , where parks comr adrian_benepe has tried to restore what he calls ` historic harlem parks ' . michael_scott_lytle describes his work at gardener at jackie_robinson park in harlem .
 editorial supports sen mary_landrieu 's bill passed by senate that would guarantee louisiana and three other coastal states share of oil and gas revenues from drilling in gulf_of mexico , saying it is best chance to save vanishing wetlands and barrier islands along coast of louisiana that were hit so hard by hurricanes last year .
 bank of canada lowers its benchmark interest rate from 2.5 percent to 2.25 percent , underlining pressure on biggest trading partners of us to counteract dampening effect their strong currencies are having on their domestic economic growth . much of slowdown in canada has been ascribed to shrinking exports , chiefly caused by 22 percent appreciation of canadian dollar against american_dollar in 2003 . consumer spending has also slumped in recent months .
 article on young leading men who are remaking central-casting image of what male film stars should look like . shift has taken place over last decade as generation of now middle-aged romantic and action heroes like bruce_willis , arnold_schwarzenegger , sylvester_stallone , harrison_ford and kevin_costner has been replaced by tobey_maguire , orlando_bloom , leonardo_dicaprio , ryan_gosling and jake_gyllenhaal .
 miami international film festival , which many supporters declared dead after its acquisition by florida_international_university in 1999 , opens under leadership of nicole_guillement , whose predecessor , nat_chediak , led festival for 18 years and left two years ago because of creative differences with university . guillement says she plans to make miami place where spanish and latin american filmmakers , producers and distributors meet and strike deals with their american counterparts .
 hawaiian airlines files for bankruptcy protection as industry announces deeper cuts in flight schedules and layoffs of 8,300 workers . united_airlines says it is cutting its schedule by 8 percent because of slump in bookings that preceded and accompanied start of war in iraq . unions say united informed them that it is laying off 1,100 mechanics and 2,300 flight attendants . northwest_airlines will cut its schedules by 12 percent and lay off 4,900 people .
 centers for disease control and prevention 's quick hiv test is being offered in persistent pockets of undiagnosed hiv cases . estimates that of 900,000 americans with aids and hiv , one-fourth are unaware of their infection and may be transmitting it unwittingly . test shortens wait for results from two weeks to 20 minutes . organizers are trying to create welcoming atmosphere instead of clinical setting many find intimidating . those who test positive are funneled into health programs . program is under way in san_francisco , boston , chicago , detroit , kansas_city , mo , los_angeles and washington .
 intel_corp 's agreement to pay $ 300 million to settle patent dispute with microunity is vindication for john_moussouris , chip designer who formed microunity in 1988 . deal assures intel of access to microunity technology , which is used in intel 's current family of pentium chips , and to patents that microunity has developed more recently .
 ben_ratliff critic 's notebook column on jazz at lincoln_center , whose inaugural season in its new home at time_warner_center in manhattan will open with concert titled one family of jazz . center 's artistic director wynton_marsalis comments , in interview , on his philosophy that has shaped inaugural season 's program and opening concert , which will include performances by members of his family and musically inclined parents of members of lincoln_center_jazz_orchestra . schedule .
 general_motors_corp has not had banner year based on recalls of its vehicles . company has recalled more than 7.5 million vehicles in less than four months . among them are some of gm 's staple products . company executives say recent recalls do not reflect quality problems with products so much as more aggressive approach to potential problems . chief financial officer john_m_devine .
 fourth graders in four large urban districts of new_york , including new_york_city , show striking gains in reading and writing at grade level . mayor michael_r_bloomberg trumpets results as election-yer affirmation of his stewardship of city 's public schools . number of city 's fourth graders meeting state standards in english language arts exam given in feb rises 9.9 points , to 59.5 percent . fourth-grade gains in rochester , yonkers and syracuse outpace city 's 9.9 percentage point improvement , making it more difficult for bloomberg and schools chancellor joel_i_klein to claim credit . results for eighth graders is disappointing , falling 2.8 percentge points in new_york_city and rising only fractionally statewide . photo . state map with district by district test results .
 article on summer bungalow colonies that once thrived in new_york 's catskill_mountains . irwin_richman , whose grandparents opened richman 's bunglow colony during depression and whose 1998 book borscht belt bungalows : memories of catskill_summers has been released in paperback , estimates that far fewer than 100 of about 500 bungalow colonies survive today . many are being replaced by more substantial homes .
 epicenter of west nile virus is st tammany parish , la , with 50,000 acres of marshland and 300 miles of home front ditches carrying septic tank effluent where southern_house mosquito breeds . 4 of 25 people who died of virus in louisiana last year lived in st_tammany . west nile first struck northern hemisphere four years ago , in queens , ny , killing 4 people . this year , all 50 states are warning of outbreak from any of 30 mosquito species known to carry it .
 nestle of switzerland , world 's largest food group , will acquire quarter of world 's largest cosmetics group , l ' oreal of france , when l ' oreal absorbs its own holding company . gesparal holding co , a pure holding company with no other business function , is majority shareholder of l ' oreal , but gesparal 's two shareholders , nestle and bettencourt famly of france , want to change that .
 former metropolitan correctional center -lrb- manhattan -rrb- guard_louis_pepe is ejected from courtroom by judge_deborah a batts during sentencing of mamdouh_mahmud_salim , top aide to osama_bin_laden . is removed for yelling at salim during sentencing outside of his alloted time . salim is sentenced to 32 years in prison for stabbling pepe in eye in 2000 in alleged attempt to take hostages at prison .
 historic green-wood cemetery in brooklyn is completing five-story deluxe community mausoleum with room for 2,300 crypt spaces for coffins and 3,800 niches for cremains . community mausoleum contrasts with green-wood ` s classic private family monuments . revenue from $ 17 million building will contribute to cemetery 's $ 10 million annual operating budget and allow green-wood remain working cemetery for several more years .
 wind farm at huitengxile , china , which currently produces 68 megawatts of electricity , predicts large increase in productivity in coming years . wang zhongying , china 's center for renewable energy develpment director , asserts that by 2020 china will supply 10 percent of its power needs from renewable energy sources , including wind . background of china 's interest and development of wind power discussed . china 's power grid currently offers limited ability to reroute power from region to region and adds to growing national energy concerns .
 american-led troops in iraq are trying new approach in year-long effort to get weapons away from iraqis : they offer to buy them . first day of buyback program in baghdad is so popular that it is extended for another two days . after three days , total of 56,536 items -- bullets , assault rifles , mortars , etc - - are turned in for total of $ 761,357 .
 nigeria 's transformation from military rule to ostensible democracy over last seven years is hobbled by political culture of graft and intimidation that has led to widespread disillusionment . public office is so lucrative that even in backwater state like ekiti spoils are worth killing for , as seen in murder of one candidate and threats that have forced second , kayode_fayemi , into hiding . pres olusegun_obasanjo has made some progress but confidence in democracy has plummeted and political chaos and electoral violence grip country months before next scheduled election in april . corruption presided over by gov ayo_fayose in ekiti described .
 bancroft family , which controls dow_jones_&_co , meets by phone to discuss pledge by rupert_murdoch to give them seat on board_of_news_corp if it buys dow_jones , and to guard independence of company 's newspaper wall street journal . group of wall street journal reporters based in china urged bancroft family in letter dated may 10 to reject murdoch 's bid .
 united nations officials have decided they must produce alternative to widely discredited human rights commission to redeem un credibility . embarrassment stems from participation of countries noted for gross rights abuses , such as cuba , sudan and zimbabwe . negotiators must settle on resolution for new council to have it in place by march , when commission reconvenes . united_states and european_union are strong proponents of proposed council , while egypt and pakistan are leading resistance .
 high oil prices are stoking economic expansion in many petroleum-producing nations of persian_gulf . revenue gains for saudi_arabia , kuwait , bahrain , united_arab_emirates , qatar and oman , which are pumping at or near capacity , are surpassing even most optimistic forecasts . recent predictions that prices will stay high well into 2005 spur hopes of more prolonged upturn and debate over how best to use windfall . signs of prosperity noted .
 former iraqi leader saddam_hussein has been referred for trial by chief investigative judge raid juhi . juhi says that exact court date will be set in next few days . hussein faces numerous charges , but will face first tribunal charged with 1982 killing of 150 mean and youths from dujail . charges and alleged events described . juhi assures iraqis that hussein will faces all charges against him and dujail trial is only beginning of process .
 european allies of us , at nato meeting in brussels , remain noncommittal about sending additional troops to afghanistan , even as bush administration seeks to inject new energy into nato mission against taliban by offering more us soldiers and money . condoleezza_rice , who called for meeting , tells assembled ministers that pres bush will ask congress for $ 10.6 billion in additional financial assistance for afghanistan . her photo .
 article on state of effort by new jersey gov james_mcgreevey to merge rutgers , university_of_medicine and dentistry of new jersey and new_jersey_institute_of_technology . rutgers president richard_mccormick , after meetings attended by those seeking merger by mcgreevey 's january 1 deadline , says that if issues of funding and governance can not be settled , some other possibilities exist .
 four current and former partners of accounting firm ernst_&_young are charged with tax fraud conspiracy over their work on questionable tax shelters . firm is not charged . four ernst_&_young employees -- robert_coplan , who is also former irs official , richard_shapiro , martin_nissenbaum and brian_vaughan -- are indicted on eight charges . developments suggest that federal prosecutors are more likely to focus on individuals rather than firms in tax shelter probe .
 kurt_landsberger of verona , nj , pays for new roof on orlando , fla , home of clarence_moore , who sounded alarm when fire struck eagle bay hotel in upstate_new_york in 1945 and saved 170 people , among them landsberger 's wife and mother . rediscovered moore through news account of his failed legal battle to rescind his stepdaughter 's sale of his home to universal orlando . moore may live in house until his death , but can not borrow money for repairs because he lacks ownership .
 flash airlines boeing 737 en route to paris crashes shortly after take-off from sharm_el-sheik , egypt , killing all 148 people on board , mostly french , japanese and moroccan tourists , plus egyptian crew . crash is tentatively blamed on technical failure , rather than terrorism , though flight recorder has not been recovered . this is third crash of egyptian commercial airliner in four years .
 tenet healthcare_corp lost $ 55 million in its third_quarter_ended_feb_28 as payments from medicare dropped sharply and it wrote down value of certain hospitals . payments from medicare dropped to $ 40 million from $ 191 million year earlier . revenue rose 5.8 percent , to $ 3.69 billion . chairman-chief executive jeffrey c barbakow comments .
 article on two new films about aileen_wuornos , serial killer who was executed in florida in october 2002 . first-time director patty_jenkins and actress charlize theron comment on movie monster . nick_broomfield , whose second documentary on subject , aileen : life and death of a serial killer , is about to be released , comments .
 walt disney_co 's board could announce as early as march 3 that it plans to separate jobs of chairman and chief executive , which are held by michael_d_eisner . hundreds of shareholders attend meeting called by roy_e_disney and stanley p gold , former directors leading campaign to oust eisner .
 thousands of demonstrators march in hong_kong to mark 15th anniversary of tiananmen_square crackdown in beijing and to protest increasing restrictions on hong_kong 's democratic development . photo . march coincides with suspicion that beijing government is linked to sudden departure of three prominent radio talk show hosts , all outspoken democracy advocates .
 cottage industry springs up in recent years of companies that not only transfer immigrant workers ' money , called remittances , to their homelands cheaply , but also offer them a way to establish credit in united_states and learn how to make their money work harder . cash flow from hispanic workers in us back to their homeland was put at $ 32 billion in 2004 , up from $ 28 billion in 2002 .
 us division of virgin_atlantic_airways will formally announce that it is naming crispin , porter_&_bogusky as new ad agency on its account . billings estimated at $ 12 million to $ 15 million . crispin , porter was one of five contenders in review , which began in january when virgin_atlantic parted with cmg_communications .
 kpmg , which is in discussions with federal prosecutors to settle criminal investigation over its sale of what internal_revenue_service says are bogus tax shelters , has been taking on former clients who have sued it over those same shelters . among those former clients are brothers r cary and d calhoun_mcnair , sons of houston_oilman_robert_c_mcnair . brothers sued kpmg in state court in houston in december 2003 , contending firm in 1999 knowingly sold them bogus tax shelters .
 goliath casket of lynn , ind , manufactures oversize coffins to meet needs of society growing ever more obese . company was started by keith and julane_davis in 1980 's and sales have been increasing 20 percent annually . davises base their design specifications not on demographic studies , but on simple observation that of americans 70 and older , 17 percent are obese . impact on all aspects of funeral industry , from sizes of hearses to enlarging actual graves , discussed .
 article on long-delayed plan to build rail link to new jersey meadowlands complex in east_rutherford . government , business , new jersey transit and sports and exposition authority officials insist , despite state 's desperate financial condition , that momentum is building with plans for xanadu_family_entertainment_center at continental_arena site and upcoming opening of rail transfer station in secaucus .
 federal bankruptcy judge_eugene_c_wedoff gives united_airlines 30 days more to come up with restructuring plan . warns airline and its warring unions to cooperate on solution or he will weigh allowing alternative offers for united . approves bankruptcy financing plan arranged by united in july , despite charge by unions and pension_benefit_guaranty_corp that united improperly pledged to terminate its pension plans to win financing . united says it hopes to salvage pension plans . says workers will get benefits like 401 -lrb- k -rrb- retirement programs if it can not save plans . stand fails to reassure unions .
 drs amanda j law of university_of_oxford , england , and daniel_r_weinberger of national_institutes_of_health lead study that finds subtle change in neuregulin , which is one of largest genes in humane genome , may be cause of schizophrenia . research is published in proceedings of the national_academy_of_sciences .
 series of emails has surfaced showing that greenwich , conn , affirmative action officer kelly j houston thought racial discrimination was probably behind expulsion of sheila_foster and migdalia_bonilla , wives of former new_york mets baseball players george_foster and bobby_bonilla , from township beach . both women are black . town says it will reserve judgment about incident until it learns outcomes of two complaints lodged with connecticut_commission on human rights and opportunities .
 league of american theaters and producers and actors ' equity are negotiating new contract , which expires on june 27 , that could last until june 2008 . major contract dispute centers on minimum salary for broadway performer , which is $ 1,354 per week . alan_eisenberg , executive director of actors ' equity , says salary is not enough . jed_bernstein , president of producers ' league , disputes eisenberg 's claim .
 ted , new low-fare carrier from united_airlines , will begin flights from washington_dulles_international_airport in april , two months after making its initial flight , out of denver on feb 12 . announcement of new service for ted comes as delta_air_lines confirms that its low-fare airline , song , will pull out of dulles_airport in april .
 catholic priest john_f_johnston is arraigned for making obscene telephone calls to bishop loughlin memorial high school in brooklyn . photo . police searching apartment find unlicensed gun , nazi_paraphernalia and $ 83,000 he apparently skimmed from collection plates at st_martin_of_tours_church in bethpage . johnston , described by fellow pastor as frugal curmudgeon , reportedly believed he was pushed out of longtime teaching job at oratory preparatory school in summit , new jersey , by new headmaster , robert_wickman , who came from bishop loughlin .
 don_hewitt , 80-year-old founder and executive producer of 60 minutes , says he will step aside to make way for 60 minutes ii producer jeffrey_fager after next television season . will then become paid , emeritus news division executive with tenure through age 90 . reaches compromise with cbs , which has been trying to ease him out in search of new blood . created 60 minutes 35 years ago . cbs hopes to freshen leadership of program , which is fading in ratings , though still most-watched news-magazine program . median age of its audience is nearly 60 . part of fager 's charge will be to increase program 's appeal to younger audience .
 casualties among private contractors in iraq have soared to record levels this year , setting pace that seems certain to turn 2007 into bloodiest year yet for civilians who work alongside us military in war zone . labor dept statistics show that at least 146 contract workers were killed in iraq in first_three_months_of_year , by far highest number for any quarter since war began in march 2003 . that brings total number of contractors killed in iraq to at least 917 , along with more than 12,000 wounded in battle or injured on job .
 american airstrike mistakenly hits convoy of american and kurdish soldiers in northern iraq , killing 18 kurds and wounding more than 45 others , including brother and son of massoud_barzani , leader of kurdistan_democratic_party . plane bombed 8 to 10 sports utility vehicles and trucks that were parked at least a mile from front line , and at least five of vehicles had blaze-orange markings on their roofs meant to warn american pilot .
 factory in massarosa , italy , bottles filippo_berio , popular olive oil brand in united_states that portrays itself as old-style favorite from italy . berio containers bear labels saying ` imported from italy , ' but they contain olive oil from spain , greece and tunisia . occasionally oil is from italy itself , but usually not from lucca , celebrated olive-growing region in tuscany that is factory 's home . italian olive oil industry has long been built on this illusion . in truth , italy does not grow enough olives to meet even its own demand , let alone foreigners ' .
 arts briefing column : american academy of arts and letters confers $ 225,000 charles ives award on composer stephen_hartke . new-york historical society will hold dramatic performance and reception featuring james_naughton , zoe_caldwell , tony_randall , ric_burns and others documenting 350 years of efforts by new yorkers to improve lives of children . exhibition , developed with support from new_york_times_co_foundation , honors its annual neediest cases fund .
 new_york_state_supreme_court_justice jaime a rios testifies at hearing to determine if he tainted 2003 murder trial of tyrone_johnson , who was convicted of fatally shooting nightclub owner in new_york_city . johnson_lawyer_ronald_l_kuby seeks to overturn conviction by showing that rios unfairly coached prosecutor eugene_reibstein . former rios law clerk judith_memblatt testifies that rios was having affair with prosecutor meryl a lutsky and that rios regularly curried favor with prosecutors to keep them from exposing affair .
 conn rep christopher_shays beats back ferocious challenge by democrat diane_farrell . republican rep rob_simmons defeats jim_sullivan . rep vito_j_fossella of staten_island , only republican representing new_york_city in congress , defeats frank j barbaro . republican rep mike_ferguson defeats steve_brozak in new jersey . buffalo-area race between democrat brian_higgins and republican nancy a naples is too close to call . republican john_r_kuhl jr defeats democrat samara barend in upstate district . tally in new jersey congressional races .
 studies by community_service society of new_york and office of new_york_city comptroller find that shrinking supply of privately owned but subsidized rental apartments has accelerated sharply over last three years . comptroller 's study focuses on losses from mitchell-lama program . both reports suggest that losses may outweigh effects of mayor_michael_r_bloomberg 's plan to build and preserve 165,000 units by 2013 .
 bush administration officials say congress has grossly underestimated cost of both prescription drug benefits and private health insurance plans to be offered under new medicare law . bush will try to explain difference between $ 395 billion estimated by congressional_budget_office_for decade from 2004 to 2013 and $ 534 billion white_house estimate when he submits his budget to congress . new cost estimate has spurred political furor .
 financial disclosure forms show that many house leaders have wealth more in line with successful middle managers than with millionaires of senate . bush administration millionaire aides include stephen_friedman , andrew h card jr , joshua_bolten and i lewis_libby . speaker j dennis_hastert has paid off up to $ 400,000 in debt . photo . democratic leader nancy_pelosi reports wealth deriving from husband . freshman repr rahm_emanuel reports $ 9.7 million in compensation from investment bank . other highlights of forms detailed .
 royal dutch / shell says securities_and_exchange_commissin has begun formal probe into company 's surprise restatement of its oil and natural gas reserves in january . development raises pressure on shell 's chairman sir philip_watts , who has been sharply criticized for way company handled reclassification . shell announced on jan 9 that it had overstated its proven oil and gas reserves by 20 percent , or 3.9 million barrels .
 article on problem-plagued new haven line of metro-north railroad , which lags behind harlem and hudson_lines in replacing trains . line 's 35,000-odd daily riders , who pay higher rates than any rail commuters in us , are forced to make do with unreliable service aboard cars that were new in 1970 's . gov john_rowland , spurred in part by winter commuting disaster , has announced that state has bought 38 used cars for $ 15 million and would spend more than $ 1 billion to replace entire fleet by 2010 .
 four seasons hotels chief executive isadore sharp makes $ 3.7 billion buyout bid for luxury hotel chain . offer is backed by kingdom hotels international , holding company of saudi_prince_walid_bin_talal , and cascade investment , investment vehicle of bill_gates . sharp would be paid $ 288 million if transaction is successful . sharp stresses he will not entertain any rival offers .
 open space institute has more than doubled size of fahnestock_state_park and added 45 acres to nearby hudson_highlands_state_park in dozen years of purchasing private land in putnam_county , new_york . program to eventually link two parks most recently purchased 699 acres on northern edge of fahnestock for $ 1.8 million from fresh air fund .
 sen john_kerry , responding to reports that ahmad_chalabi may have leaked critical us secrets to iran , blasts bush administration for ever backing iraqi exile leader , saying he met chalabi in london in 1998 and deemed him unworthy of us support . disputes bush contention that iraq is main front in effort against terror and charges administration creates ` backdoor draft ' by repeatedly extending military duty tours . speaks at university_of_south_florida , after discussion on bioterrorism .
 jersey footlights column : ship paintings by antonio nicolo_gasparo_jacobsen are on view at hoboken historical museum . bergen performing arts center reportedly convinces fleet bank to forgive some of john_harms_center for arts ' $ 2.3 million debt . bill rood will join seven other jersey city poets for readings on steps of city hall . silent laughter , play by billy_van_zandt and jane_milmore , is set to open at brookdale performing arts center .
 leeds neighbors and friends of three suspected london bombers describe them as responsible and well-adjusted . photos . mohammad sidique_khan , 30 , who befriended shehzad_tanweer , 22 , and hasib_mir_hussain , 18 , was religious , well-liked teaching aide at local school , with pregnant wife and young child . neighbor says tanweer and other men visited khan_house , some taking in large bags .
 monica rosu -lrb- romania -rrb- wins women 's individual vault event at 2004 olympics . annia hatch -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and anna_pavlova -lrb- russia -rrb- wins bronze . emile lepennec -lrb- france -rrb- wins uneven bars . terin_humphrey -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and courtney_kupets -lrb- us -rrb- wins bronze .
 two huichol indian experts dr peter t furst , state_university_of_new_york -lrb- albany -rrb- former anthropology department chairman , and dr jay_courtney_fikes , yeditepe university -lrb- istanbul -rrb- professor of anthropology , are embroiled in new mexico legal battle stemming from work of famous and controversial anthropolgist carlos_castaneda . decade-long conflict will be resolved in new_mexico_supreme_court . history of their dispute is traced . carlos_castenada 's books , which outline peyote rituals and other shamanistic practices taught to him by yaqui indian juan_matus , are discussed and debated .
 share prices of brazil 's top poultry exporters are soaring as flocks in thailand are decimated by deadly avian flu sweeping asia . shares of sadia , perdigao and seara alimentos are up average of 16.5 percent from jan 22 . brazil is tightening controls at ports and airports . agriculture_ministry is also expected to spend $ 40 million on sanitary measures this year , double amount spent last year .
 article on some of myriad satellite businesses in washington heights and inwood in upper manhattan that cater to livery cabs . neighborhood , with 2.6 percent of new_york_city 's population , is home to 8.5 percent of its livery cabs . taxi and limousine commission has aproved opening of 12th livery company in neighborhood .
 john_sloss and wife , kathryn_tucker , buy chelsea , new_york_city , town_house owned by norah p and edward p h burden , who are divorcing , for $ 5.1 million . economists john_marchant and roger_sharp of business 360 consulting firm says manhattan co-op prices have risen far faster than personal income since 1997 , while personal income has grown faster than real estate prices since 1987 . current market continues to percolate , despite drop in inventory of apartments for sale .
 political analysts say israeli settlers in west_bank see opening in consensus that disengagement in gaza was mistake . group of 100 settlers has reclaimed vacant building in middle of arab neighborhood in hebron . thousands of advocates plan to march on israel 's independence day to homesh , west_bank settlement evacuated in 2005 .
 gov george_pataki 's approval of new_york_state legislation authorizing $ 1.3-billion water-filtration plant in the bronx does not settle key details for project that is to filter about ten percent of city 's supply and require deep excavation into bedrock beneath van_cortlandt_park . still required are environmental studies of alternative sites and distribution of $ 243 million in capital funds for bronx_parks . city is under court-monitored consent order to build plant , result of epa lawsuit .
 harvey_araton sports of the times_column_discusses_baylor_university_women 's basketball team 's victory over louisiana_state_university in ncaa tournament semifinal and its unlikely success in seasons after baylor was struck by tragedy in summer_of 2003 . school is still recovering from murder of former men 's basketball player patrick_dennehy by friend carlton_dotson and resulting allegations of ncaa rules violations .
 bishop v gene_robinson , first openly gay episcopal bishop , says conflict over homosexuality in church and in presidential campaign distracts from vital political issues . speaks at forum at 82nd st y in manhattan as church_commission in london is nearing end of yearlong deliberations on preventing schism over homosexuality in anglican_communion , international_association_of 38 national_churches .
 national democratic party eyes races in upstate_new_york in effort to retake congress . concentrates on races involving michael_a_arcuri against republican state sen raymond a meier , jack_davis against rep thomas_reynolds , eric_massa against rep john_randy_kuhl jr , dan_maffei against rep james_t_walsh and kirsten_gillibrand against rep john_e_sweeney .
 atty gen john_ashcroft and former fbi director louis j freeh , who will testify before 9/11 commission next week , are expected to be criticized for their agencies ' failures before terror attacks . commission members say hearings will bolster what will be major recommendation of panel 's final report : an overhaul of domestic counterintelligence agency separate from fbi . bush administration opposes such a move . ashcroft and freeh have defended their efforts before 9/11 in testimony to other investigators and in other forums . fbi insists it has made broad changes in its counterterrorism division since attacks , but thomas_h_kean , chairman of commission , voices concern that bureau would ` go back to business as usual ' within few years unless counterintelligence aparatus is changed . besides ashcroft and freeh , witness list for next week includes former atty gen janet_reno and fbi director robert_s_mueller_iii .
 connecticut legislative session ends , but committee investigating gov john_g_rowland stays in hartford to finish its work . schedules public hearings in june . decision on whether or not to impeach rowland would come by june 30 , and senate trial , if there is one , would begin in july . most peripheral legal battles surrounding case have been settled .
 senate , 76 to 21 , approves a $ 318 billion highway and mass transit measure despite threat of veto by pres bush . six-year proposal exceeds by $ 62 billion the spending level bush has said is acceptable and represents about 47 percent increase in spending over current program . bill has strong support of democrats , while among republicans , fiscal conservatives accuse their colleagues of embarking on spending spree in face of rising deficit .
 third article in series the new_europe examines immigration issues facing expanded european_union . new members in eastern_europe face demographic problem of aging populations and shrinking workforce and could become magnets for legal and illegal immigration , a marked shift for societies closed off for 40 years under communism . international organization for migration identifies poland , czech_republic , slovakia and slovenia as attractive destinations . debate over immigration in czech_republic , which has nearly 230,000 legal immigrants , described .
 new york authorities say drummer and dancer vado diomande contracted anthrax from bacteria while performing on drums made with untreated animal hides from africa . say it is nation 's first naturally occurring case of inhalation anthrax infection in 30 years . mayor michael_r_bloomberg says that there is no danger to public . diomande collapsed during performance in mansfield , pa , where he and members of his group are treated with antibiotics . pennsylvania informs new_york_city of incident .
 federal government will expand number of medicare patients permitted to receive defibrillators , device implanted in chest and designed to protect against fatal heart rhythms . 45,000 mediare patients currently receive devices each year , and under latest decision 10,000 more will be added . defibrillators cost $ 25,000 each , and operation along with follow-up care can come to $ 40,000 per patient . total cost to medicare is expected to increase by as much as $ 400 million over current level of $ 1 billion .
 us cancels the water project it had planned for halabja as part of a vast effort to rebuild iraq after 2003 invasion . project in kurdish town was worth about $ 10 million . it accounted for a small fraction of $ 18.4 billion that congress approved in 2003 for the reconstruction of iraq , including $ 4 billion for water and sewage projects . us shifted $ 3.4 billion from the projects to pay for training_iraqi_army and police forces after the outbreak of the insurgency in 2004 .
 kelefa sanneh critic 's notebook column on plans by bob_geldof for live 8 , consisting of concerts in london , berlin , paris , rome and philadelphia on july 2 and one in edinburgh on july 6 , set to coincide with this year 's g8 summit . concerts are aimed at raising consciousness , rather than money , and putting pressure on world leaders to agree to plan of debt cancellation , revised trade regulations and increased aid to poorest countries .
 seven spanish intelligence officers die as iraqi guerrillas fire rocket-propelled grenades at their cars , mahmudiya . two japanese diplomats are killed in apparent ambush , tikrit , iraq . it is unclear whether attacks , clearly aimed at key american allies , were coordinated . spain has troops in iraq and japan weighs sending noncombat forces . lt gen ricardo_sanchez , speaking before attacks , says attacks on american and allies soldiers have dropped sharply in last two weeks .
 workers at alitalia stage eight-hour strike jan 19 that forces cancellation of more than 350 flights and affects thousands of domestic and international passengers . action seen as latest example of labor unrest and transportation chaos in italy . principal issue in case of alitalia workers is carrier 's announced plans to cut costs by eliminating 1,500 jobs in next two years .
 creative artists agency in los_angeles hires away george_lane , powerful broadway agent , from new_york_office_of_willam_morris_agency , and several of his clients say they will join him.signature theater co will devote next three seasons to works by bill_irwin -lrb- 2003-4 -rrb- , paula_vogel -lrb- 2004-5 -rrb- and august wilson -lrb- 2005-6 -rrb- .
 one secret after another has tumbled out since collapse of bernard_b_kerik 's nomination as homeland security secretary , yet nanny , who is central figure to scandal , remains shrouded in mystery . neither white_house nor kerik camp has discussed any specifics . one of kerik 's neighbors describes young , olive-skinned woman seen with kerik 's children , but others are reluctant or unable to talk about her , including kerik 's lawyer joseph_tacopina . some skeptics are questioning very existence of nanny .
 israel , after resisting major ground offensive , has estimated 10,000 troops in southern lebanon trying to build buffer zone free of hezbollah . seven israeli soldiers have been killed in two_days of battles on territory guerrillas know far better than israelis . lt gen dan_halutz 's plan to destroy hezbollah from air has proved wanting , but ground operation poses dangers for israel and will complicate international efforts to end fighting .
 amc entertainment , number 2 theater chain , announces it will merge with loews_cineplex_entertainment_corp , its next-largest competitor . amc and loews will offer audiences 5,900 screens across 30 states and 13 countries . shareholders of lce holdings , which owns loews , will own 40 percent of merged company . combined company will operate from kansas_city as amc_entertainment_inc and be led by amc chief executive peter_c_brown .
 analysis of china 's decision to float its currency , the yuan , holds it is end of era in which china 's leaders trusted federal_reserve chairman alan_greenspan , assuming that where dollar went , china could safely follow . holds china 's rulers are putting their trust in much less well-known central bank : zhou_xiaochuan , governor of people 's bank of china , must manage more discretionary policy adopted on july 21 .
 medicare payment advisory commission votes to recommend cut in medicare payments promised to hospitals and freeze in payments to nursing homes and home care agencies next year . recommendations from influential panel will give powerful support to republican lawmakers and bush administration officials who want to curb soaring medicare costs , as part of overall effort to reduce federal budget deficit . medicare covers 41 million elderly and disabled people . cost climbed 8.4 percent last year to $ 300 billion , and is expected to increase 30 percent from 2005 to 2007 , with introduction of drug benefit .
 sec of state condoleezza_rice returns to washington after her trip to middle_east . rice met with leaders of egypt , saudi_arabia , lebanon , united_arab_emirates and other persian_gulf_states . kings , presidents and prime ministers told her they were concerned that sectarian violence in iraq could spread across middle_east .
 supreme court agrees to hear appeals from two opposing lower-court rulings , one that upheld display of ten commandments monument on texas_state_capitol grounds and another that ordered two kentucky counties to remove framed copies of commandments from courthouse walls . court also agrees to hear case on degree to which government may accommodate religious needs of prison inmates . case involves five ohio prison inmates , adherents of unconventional religions like wicca and asatru , who invoked four-year-old federal law to protest denial of access to ceremonial items and opportunities for group worship . one federal appeals court declared law unconstitutional establishment of religion , while three others have upheld it .
 federal jury in jackson , miss , finds ernest_avants , former klansman and last living suspect , guilty of 1966 murder of black man ben_chester_white , as part of plot to assassinate rev dr martin_luther_king_jr . avants shows no emotion as verdict is read . had been acquitted in state court in 1967 despite testimony of fbi agent allan_kornblum that avants confessed to crime .
 coca-cola co settles differences with burger king over coke 's rigged marketing test of frozen coke in several virginia burger king restaurants in june 2002 . admits it paid virginia man $ 10,000 to purchase hundreds of value meals , which included free frozen cokes . among other problems , coke also faces employee compensation lawsuit , but long-term erosion in overall carbonated drink sales is greatest challenge company faces .
 new_york_city will end program that shelters homeless in private apartments and hotels , saying it violates city rules that require contracts with landlords . so-called scatter-site placements were developed as temporary program but have ballooned since 2001 to house 25 percent of city 's homeless at cost of $ 2,900 a month per apartment , many of them substandard . program costs city $ 96 million a year .
 pentagon officials say they resist significant expansion of american forces already sent ashore in liberia as pres charles_g_taylor edges closer to leaving nation , meeting one of pres bush 's conditions for greater american military role . bush faces rising pressure from united_nations_sec gen kofi_annan and african and european allies to send in larger force to help secure monrovia , port and capital , and open up relief column . annan aide says annan again pressed for more sizable us military role at meeting with sec_colin_l_powell . state department says powell backs goal of securing monrovia , but that us military role must still be decided .
 world trade center site developer larry_a_silverstein implores new_york gov george_e_pataki to resume negotiations over rebuilding . pataki had insisted that silverstein , leaseholder at site , and property owner port authority of new_york and new jersey hold talks to settle differences . port authority broke off negotiations , saying silverstein wants guaranteed profit while asking authority to assume all risk .
 pres bush visits uganda and praises country as model for fighting aids in afric . photo of pres yoweri_museveni_welcoming_bush to aids event . bush says us will help fund efforts , although security adviser condoleezza_rice leaves unclear whether white_house considers funding target for next year to be $ 2 billion or $ 3 billion .
 commercial plane orders at boeing have outpaced those at its main rival airbus so far this year because of design and delivery problems with airbus 's two new planes , midsize a350 and superjumbo a380 . boeing turned down request by southwest_airlines , its best commercial customer , when airline wanted to add two planes to recent order of 80 . boeing is trying to manage what could be too much of good thing with aviation booming and airlines lining up for boeing planes . boeing is trying to avoid mistakes of past . in last aviation boom , in 1997 and 1998 , boeing gorged itself on orders , but its production lines could not keep up and ground to halt . company flooded market with too many planes and ultimately had to sell them at cut-rate prices .
 article on art and art objects for sale at european fine art fair in maastricht , netherlands , which is expected to attract about 70,000 visitors by time it closes on march 14 . highlights include zubaran 's 17th-century painting flight into egypt , whose asking price is $ 3.7 million and picasso 's sylvette on a red background , priced at $ 9.5 million .
 peter_sellars directs violinist geoff_nuttall and soprano dawn upshaw in performance of gyorgy_kurtag 's kafka fragments , series of short excerpts from kafka 's diaries , letters and notebooks . it is part of upshaw 's perspectives series at carnegie_hall . piece , which was completed in 1987 , is one of kurtag 's longest works , lasting nearly an hour .
 senior russian official says russia will not ratify kyoto protocol , citing pres vladimir_putin 's view that required measures to address global warming run counter to russia 's national interests . photos . decision could be fatal blow to years of diplomatic efforts because treaty can not take effect without ratification by russia or us . both signed in 1997 but bush administration has repudiated pact . russia cites costs of curtailing emissions of gases from burning of fossil fuels and , like american critics , complains that major polluters like china and india are not bound by treaty .
 us rep bill_janklow -lrb- south_dakota -rrb- , who ran stop sign and hit motorcyclist , killing him , admitted years ago that he likes to speed . could face prison sentence of 10 years or more if he is charged and convicted of manslaughter . janklow 's son russell concedes that his father 's history of speeding violations has been unfortunte footnote to otherwise distinguished career that includes four years as south_dakota attorney general , 16 years as governor and , since jan , member of house .
 air force asks pentagon to broaden its probe into procurement scandal to include more contracts that former official admitted improperly awarding to boeing_co , including $ 4 billion contract to upgrade software on c-130 transport airplane . request comes as boeing faces new challenges as result of admission last week by former air_force acquisition officer darleen a druyun that she favored boeing in granting billions of dollars in contracts in effort to get jobs for herself and her family . lockheed_martin_corp , which lost c-130 contract to boeing , says it is consulting with its lawyers about filing protest with either government or in courts , and could take action as early as oct 12 .
 india 's stock prices drop more than 11 percent , thrown into turmoil by confusion over future of country 's economy under sonia_gandhi 's congress party and its left-leaning allies . ultimate shape of ruling coalition led by congress_party has been unclear since surprising rejection of government of prime min atal behari vajpayee in elections ended last week . shape of economic policy is less clear as new government will need support of india 's communist parties .
 sen john_kerry and howard_dean , who kerry bested in democratic primary contests , meet at kerry headquarters in washington to plot path to mutual goal of ousting pres bush from white_house . photos . dean 's official endorsement expected later . kerry also meets with democratic national chairman terry_mcauliffe . sen john_edwards will bring fund-raising network to meet with kerry . kerry , talking with supporters in chicago and apparently not realizing microphone was on , calls republican critics ` most crooked ' and ` lying group i 've ever seen ' . republican chairman marc_racicot demands apology . kerry campaign maps strategy of countering bush 's huge financial advantage by having local surrogates respond to attacks and seeking smaller donations , using howard_dean 's huge e-mail database .
 school of american ballet opens four new studios at lincoln_kirsten_studio_wing at lincoln_center -lrb- nyc -rrb- . studios were designed by elizabeth_diller of diller_scofidio_+_renfro , which is leading architectural firm in makeover of center 's campus . studios were added to existing space by ` floating ' and ` stacking ' them inside larger spaces . project cost $ 7.2 million .
 pres bush seems to have shifted his approach to north_korea , and now speaks of diplomacy when discussing country 's nuclear capability . diplomacy is most effective from position of strength and there is rising evidence that many countries , russia and china among them , detect change in strategic atmosphere . behind north_korea 's threats seems to be understanding of american vulnerabilities , stirring fears about its potential to create havoc among us allies and trading partners , japan , south_korea , taiwan and china .
 nobel prize in physics is awarded to one russian and two american scientists , one originally from russia and one from england , for work done decades ago on how electricity can flow through some materials without resistance and how some fluids can flow without friction . honored are dr alexei a abrikosov , 75 , of argonne_national_laboratory in illinois , dr vitaly_l_ginzburg , 87 , of p n lebedev_physical_institute in moscow and dr anthony_j_leggett , 65 , of university_of_illinois .
 phillips , de pury & company contemporary art auction in chelsea section of manhattan succeeds in selling 74 of 76 items on block , with evening 's take topping $ 29.5 million . highest price of evening was paid by manhattan real estate dealer aby_rosen , $ 2.7 million for sculpture of buster_keaton by jeff_koons .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg of new_york considers backing democratic city councilman joseph_p_addabbo jr for seat in state_senate occupied by republican sen serphin r maltese . maltese is close to senate majority leader joseph_l_bruno who is struggling to keep control of senate . bruno and maltese have helped to defeat several of bloomberg 's favorite initiatives in city . bloomberg aides claim he is only considering backing addabbo because he is fed up with albany shortchanging city .
 what north_korea and us will do in coming months has become more uncertain with swift american victory in iraq , which has prompted concern throughout far east that us might be emboldened to wage new war . north_korea confounded expections that it would use american involvement in iraq to restart its nuclear reactor at yongbyon , and that apparent restraint may mean that it has decided to try to preserve uneasy status quo . restraint and maintenance of status quo may serve bush administration 's interests as well .
 architect philippe_starck will help transform 15 broad street in manhattan 's financial district into high-end condominiums , complete with garden on roof of adjoining 23 wall street overlooking new_york_stock_exchange and federal_hall_national memorial . 15 broad is former equitable_trust_co building , and 23 wall was formerly house_of_morgan .
 article discusses work of photographer william_klein , who returns to new_york to orchestrate events showing scope of his 50 years as photographer , filmmaker and graphic designer . center of celebration is his new book of photographs paris + klein . selections from book tokyo 1961 are on view at howard_greenburg_gallery , and philadelphia museum of art is showing retrospective exhibit .
 jeffrey_richter , former senior trader with enron_corp , pleads guilty to manipulating california power market illegally during state 's energy crisis and then lying about his actions to fbi officials . was former head of enron 's short-term california energy trading desk . is second enron trader to plead guilty to manipulating california energy market for purpose of driving up prices and generating millions of dollars in excess profits for company . prosecutors hail plea .
 federal security agents in washington , dc , and counterparts in virginia and maryland have begun huge effort to protect federal buildings and national monuments against terrorists . alterations will cost several hundred_million dollars and should take five or six years . face of washington is already changing to something more ominous and less attractive , but designers are seeking to strike balance between openness and safety .
 oakland athletics pitcher barry_zito , scheduled to pitch in all star game , is informed during media interview that oakland general manager billy_beane told mlb that zito was not able to pitch , allowing new_york_yankees pitcher roger_clemens to be member of american league all star team . beane suggested zito should not pitch on one day 's rest , but many believe this was seen as way to get clemens , who will retire after this year , to all star game .
 bodies of madeline_wade , her mother , edna , and son marquis are found at their home in clifton , nj . three have been dead at least since december 21 . home was scene of many domestic quarrels between marquis and his mother . police say marquis murdered others and then committed suicide and that he had history of mental illness .
 six designs are under consideration for gazprom_city , proposed complex of stylish modern buildings in st_petersburg , russia , that would sit on historic site opposite smolny cathedral . local architects ' union has protested because main tower would soar three or four times higher than cathedral , one of city 's most famous landmarks . and city 's zoning laws forbid buildings as high as those proposed . but gazprom 's ties to kremlin and fact that it is world 's fourth largest company make project a certainty .
 article describes mission in sadr_city with platoon from company a of second battalion , fifth cavalry regiment of first cavalry division . first cavalry has killed 912 iraqis in sadr_city since militia of moktada_al-sadr began fighting in may . nearly half of platoon has won purple hearts since arrival in early march .
 on education column describes experiment in miami schools to entice teachers to transfer to most troubled schools in county . program , instituted by schools superintendent rudy crew , offers 20 percent more pay for 20 percent more hours for all teachers willing to transfer . roots of program go back to new_york , where crew served as schools chancellor in 1990 's , and took direct control over chronically low-performing schools .
 pres bush completes second_day of campaign swing through california , with pointed emphasis on his credentials as commander in chief and robust defense of his tax cuts . but throughout day his aides scramble to counter criticism that his first television commercials crassly politicize tragedy of sept 11 attacks . criticism -- from firefighters union , relatives of victims and allies of sen john_kerry -- put bush campaign in uncomfortable position .
 alan feuer 125th street journal contends that harlem -lrb- nyc -rrb- residents near office that former president bill_clinton moved into in 2001 are growing restless about seeing clinton more often . clinton has not been presence he was expected to be in harlem , which was supposed to benefit from renaissance of sorts because of him , even though most residents seem to see that clinton 's office has been busy .
 john_browne , who transformed bp into one of most successful global companies , resigns abruptly after losing court battle with daily mail newspaper over disclosure of his sexual relationship with younger man . browne acknowledges offering ` untruthful account ' to court about circumstances under which he met man , former companion . browne says he will step down immediately , three months earlier than planned , in resignation that aould cost him more than $ 30 million in retirement and stock benefits . bp says browne will be replaced immediately by tony_hayward , who had been expected to take over in july . also exonerates browne of suspected misdeeds relating to use of bp facilities by his former companion .
 construction of new_york_city 's water tunnel number 3 reaches major milestone as workers complete excavation of 8.5-mile section connecting midtown and lower manhattan to earlier segment under central park . work on segment began in 2003 . $ 6-billion effort , biggest public works project in city 's history , was authorized in 1954 , begun in 1970 and halted several times for lack of money . it has claimed 24 lives . completion of second stage now will nearly double capacity of water supply and back up two aging tunnels so they can be closed and repaired for first time since they opened in 1917 and 1936 .
 proponents of internet radio say number of consumers who listen to radio over their computers has risen to point where medium should begin to gain mainstream advertisers . arbitron reports that 20 million americans aged 12 and older listen to webcasts at least once a week and about 39 million do so at least once a month . radio division of aol , part of time_warner , is set to announce deal with advertising sales company , ronning_lipset_radio , in which ronning_lipset will sell audio ads to marketers who want to reach combined radio audience of yahoo and aol . photo .
 dr peter_jenniskens , seti institute -lrb- mountain view , calif -rrb- astronomer , holds that 2003 ehi , asteroid discovered in march 2003 , is responsible for quadrantid meteors . research , published in astronomical journal , explains how large mass of debris and young age of meteor grouping point to asteroid being burnt-out core of comet that was observed in china , japan and korea in 1490 and 1491 and never witnessed again .
 jerome_charyn article , on eve of event new_york_city police department 's current chief chaplain , rabbi alvin_kass , calls 350 years of jews in law enforcement , on history of jews in department . department-sponsored event , at one police plaza , will also commemorate 80th anniversary of shomrim_society , fraternal order of jewish officers and civilians within department .
 explosions tear through crowd of students and employees at main gate to mustansiriya_university in baghdad , killing at least 70 people . two car bombs and suicide bomber leave shiite campus littered with glass , body parts and charred books and metal . photos . day of such attacks amount to show of sunni_force following hanging of barzan_al-tikriti and awad al-bandar . at least 108 people are killed and 25 more found dead , many tortured . prime min nuri al-maliki blames sunnis in statement that continues tepid support for pres bush 's troop surge . four us soldiers are killed by bomb in ninewa_province .
 lisa_kalis travel article on return of european and american tourists to beach resorts in southern_asia four months after tsunami struck . tour operators in europe report drop in bookings of from 20 percent to 40 percent in first_quarter of year compared with same period last year . say europeans are returning to region more quickly . resort operators say americans seem more sensitive to major events and are not yet returning in great numbers . list .
 growing number of prominent nonprofit groups are buying media time and creative services . research suggests that charitable groups overall have increased their ad outlays recently . nielsen monitor-plus says spending by charities increased to $ 576.5 million in 2003 , from $ 497.7 million in 2002 ' . some nonprofits groups that have increased spending including american_cancer_society and american_heart_association .
 jury in south_texas awards $ 32 million in damages to family of leonel_garza , 71 , who died of heart attack after briefly taking painkiller vioxx , made by merck . texas punitive damages laws will automatically reduce award to $ 7.75 million . verdict is major disappointment for drug company , because garza had long history of heart disease and took vioxx for less than month before he died . merck has lost three of five suits to reach juries , each involving multimillion-dollar awards for plaintiffs .
 pres bush lowers his target for his tax cuts to $ 550 billion , significant retreat on his economic principles and admission that his original package worth $ 726 billion is dead . says he will press for most aggressive tax cut possible . white_house officials and republican concede that it will be difficult for bush to win even $ 550 billion in tax cuts over 10 years from congress and that it is likely that final deal will be closer to $ 350 billion limit for tax cuts approved by senate .
 kelefa sanneh critic 's notebook column on odie_blackmon , 36 , one of small army of songwriters in nashville who do not record their own songs . blackmon 's ballad , i may hate myself in the morning , sung by lee_ann_womack , has been nominated by country music assn for single of the year and song of the year .
 rep thomas_m_reynolds of buffalo area establishes himself as one of best-connected lawmakers on capitol hill , and recently raised at least $ 200,000 for pres bush 's re-election campaign , threshold that qualifies him to be ranger , member of elite group of presidential fund-raisers that includes no other member of congress . to date , bush-cheney campaign has listed only 23 individials who have raised at least $ 200,000 , including gov george e pataki of new_york . reynolds photo .
 alan b krueger_economic_scene_column on affirmative action in college admissions . discusses earnings outlook for blacks in light_of_supreme_court justice sandra day o'connor 's stand in university_of_michigan_law_school case that racial preferences will no longer be needed for diversity in 25 years . cites studies that show 40 to 60 percent of gap in earnings between particular individual and average worker is closed from one generation to next . sees no evidence to support justice clarence_thomas 's stand that attending top colleges harms minority students .
 belgian finching , or vinkensport , is 400-year-old flemish competition in which finches compete for most bird calls in hour from inside wooden box . 13,000 vinkeniers compete in waregem , belgium , and breed 10,000 finches for competition each year . birds typically start singing in spring mating season . 2,000 finches compete in televised national championships in june .
 literary world was perplexed when fiction judges of national book award named christine_schutt 's first novel florida , which has sold estimated 150 copies , one of five finalists . three other finalists have sold between 700 and 900 copies apiece . only kate_walbert 's our kind : a novel in stories , has sold as many as 2,500 copies . other fiction finalists are sarah_shun-lien_bynum for madeleine is sleeping , joan_silber for ideas of heaven : a ring of stories , and lily tuck for the news from paraguay .
 united_states_olympic_committee_ethics_board members edward_petry , stephen_potts and john_kuelbs resign , signaling widening of rift within usoc over conflict of interest charges against chief executive lloyd d ward . say they have lost confidence in olympic committee 's ability to enforce its ethics code . unrest within usoc could hinder efforts to secure sponsorships needed in 19 months for united_states athletes at 2004 summer games .
 bush administration , facing deluge of criticism in election year , scales back plan that would make hundreds of thousands of workers excempt from overtime pay rules . sec elaine_chao revises rules to protect police officers and other higher-paid blue collar workers . workers earning more than $ 100,000 a year would almost automatically be disqualified from overtime pay , up from $ 65,000 proposed last year . chao says new rules merely modernize and simplify regulations . democrats charge that bush administration is offering favor to corporations .
 kirkus reviews , seeking to increase revenues and raise its visibility , is considering selling advertising for first time in its 71 years . is starting two new online publications . kirkus discoveries will review new book from any publisher not included in other kirkus publications for $ 350 . kirkus reports will recommend selected lifestyle title in listing for $ 95 .
 officials and groups on long_island and connecticut sides of long_island sound , following compromise that allowed 330-megawatt cross sound cable to operate , say relations have greatly improved but remain strained . long_island power authority views cable as crucial supplier of power from new_england , particularly during summer . connecticut attorney general richard_blumenthal , seen by some long_island officials as antagonist , says he is proposing new york-connecticut commission to discuss energy , environmental and other issues .
 japan redesigns its bank notes for first time in 20 years , issuing pretty new series of bills . prime min junichiro_koizumi says main reason for change is to foil counterfeiters . change will cost far more than $ 1 million a year in direct losses to counterfeiting . high cost suggests real agenda is bringing into economy trillions of yen that elderly stash at home .
 dr william_baker , royal_botanic_gardens , england , botanist , leads study on kentia_palm found in wild exclusively on lord howe_island in south_pacific . findings , which are published in journal nature , confirm evolutionary process called sympatric speciation . similar study by axel_meyer of university_of_konstanz , germany , on two species of fish in lake_apoyo , nicaragua , also supports split of one species into two . it is also published in journal nature .
 sharp rise in housing prices over recent years pushed many homebuyers into taking out adjustable-rate mortgage , s , allowing them to buy into pricey market at fraction of interest cost of traditional mortgage . some economists estimate that anywhere from $ 162 billion to $ 1 trillion worth of adjustable-rate mortages will reach reset point over next year , and many consumers are already reacting , with nearly 44 percent of all loans being refinanced . some who used arm 's to buy homes in areas where prices have dropped precipitously are now in desperate straits . one housing consultancy says about 19 percent of 7.7 million arm 's taken out in 2004 and 2005 are at risk of defaulting .
 merchant risk council chairman tom_sullivan says major online retailers have improved security . contends fraud artists have turned their attention to smaller merchants and to big sellers of gift cards this holiday season . cybersource survey says about 1.4 percent of average retailer 's sales turn out to be fraudulent , compared with 2.9 percent in 2002 . says overall cost of fraud will reach $ 3 billion this year compared with $ 2.1 billion in 2002 .
 house_international_relations_committee_chairman_henry_hyde_,_armed_services_committee_chairman_duncan_hunter_and_small_business_committee chairman donald_manzullo , in letter to treasury secretary john_snow , urge bush administration to conduct formal investigation of ibm deal to sell its personal computer business to lenovo of china to determine whether it poses national security risk .
 asbury park , new jersey , city_counil , under pressure to show progress on redeveloping 56 acres on blighted oceanfront , gives developer asbury partners one month to negotiate changes in its agreement and prove its financial resouces . ambitious plan became mired in developer 's bankruptcy and indictment of some town officials 15 years ago . work is under way on three condominiums but landmark board buildings like convention hall remain ghostlike , even as victorian homes inland are renovated . critics like renovation developer richard_depetro say asbury partners is ` land banking ' sites until value increases .
 five engineers -- two americans , two britons and one australian -- are killed when gunmen believed to be religious militants burst into office of abb lummus in yanbu , saudi_arabia . three others are wounded . gunmen , three of whom are later identified as employees , drag westerner behind stolen getaway vehicle . three gunmen are killed and fourth is captured . five killed are among some 50 foreigners working on project to upgrade oil refinery run jointly by saudi_basic_industries_corp and exxon . by hitting at foreigners in main hub of world 's largest oil producer , militants strike at ties between saudi_arabia and west and appear aimed at destabilizing saudi government .
 portrait of an elderly woman in a white bonnet goes on view at rembrandt_house in amsterdam after it is confirmed to be work of rembrandt . will be auctioned off by sotheby 's , with conservative bidding estimate of $ 3 million to $ 4 million . work was brought to attention of rembrandt_research_project , where project head ernst van der wetering and art conservationist martin_bijl spent two years restoring and studying painting before confirming its origin .
 roseland property co , in significant shift from rentals to condominiums , has sold number of buildings and entered agreement with lennar_corp of miami to jointly develop future parcels at port imperial , upscale rental development along waterfront in weehawken , west_new_york and guttenberg , nj . complex 's 1,150 units are 97 percent occupied and 6,000 units are expected when it is completed . roseland principal marshall tycher comments on future projects and on port imperial , which he has been developing since 1987 .
 bush administration demands that iran dismantle all ` equipment and facilities ' it has built over past two decades to manufacture nuclear material . makes demand at sensitive moment , opening of united_nations conference on future of nuclear nonproliferation treaty . dispute over what iran shuold and should not be allowed to do encapsulates challenges facing review of treaty , which takes place every five years .
 united states attorney in new mexico david c iglesias was among eight attorneys fired in december . new mexico 's two most powerful republicans , sen pete_domenici and rep heather_wilson , deny exerting political pressure in their late october calls to ask about pending corruption indictments long reported to involve at least one top democrat . iglesias believes his resistance to pressure cost him his job .
 profile of california assemblywoman fran_pavley , a democrat , who is leading state 's fight on auto emissions and is defending environmental creditials of republican gov arnold_schwarzenegger . automakers this week sued to block legislation pavley sponsored that would require about 30 percent cut in greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks sold in california by 2016 model year . pavley says california , as one of largest auto makers , has obligation to lead way in north_america .
 nicaragua , with election of former marxist rebel leader daniel_ortega as president , finds itself in middle of miniature cold war between us and leftist governments in cuba and venezuela . ortega faces balancing act no politician would envy , both inside country and on world stage . he can ill afford to lose over $ 50 million a year in us aid or credit from international_monetary_fund .
 pres hugo_chavez of venezuela is promoting and largely financing latin america telesur , regionwide television station that he says is aimed at counteracting ` media_dictatorship_'_of_international_news_networks . venture also involves argentina , cuba , brazil and uruguay . station is scheduled to begin broadcasting in july . critics say chavez 's intention is to stifle dissent rather than broaden coverage with propaganda machine financed by ideologically driven government flush with oil money .
 andrew_lloyd_webber 's newest musical , the woman in white , mystery melodrama based on wilkie_collins ' 19th-century novel which is currently running in london , will open on broadway on november 10_, 2005 . james_earl_jones will return to new_york stage after 16-year hiatus playing opposite leslie_uggams in revival of ernest_thompson 's on golden pond on april 7_, 2005 .
 greenwich_associates survey finds goldman_sachs 's research has declined to fourth place from third in 2002 despite hiring of andrew_melnick to run its research department . melnick was head of merrill_lynch 's research department from 1997 through 2001 , and was supervisor of henry_blodget , one-time star internet analyst who has been banned from industry for issuing overly bullish research reports . regulators are currently questioning whether executives at merrill , goldman and other firms properly supervised their analysts , and have issued subpoenas for documents from 1999 to 2001 .
 union representing roofers across new_york_city and its northern suburbs is indicted in scheme to extort more than $ 2 million from roofing contractors through racketeering and mob influence . indictment names local 8 of united_union_of_roofers , waterproofers and allied workers , which is based in brooklyn , and eight people , including local 8 officials and people identified as members of genovese crime family .
 avis berman article on history of five murals painted in early 1930 's by thomas_hart_benton , with financial help from juliana_force , then director of whitney museum . focuses on how murals became part of permanent collection of new britain museum of american art in 1932 . new britain museum has lent murals to whitney for nine months .
 george_pataki is sworn in for third term as governor of new_york . challenges new yorkers to confront state 's dire fiscal problems with courage and unity . calls for bipartisan cooperation from albany 's lawmakers to close shortfall of $ 2 billion this fiscal year and $ 10 billion next year . lt gov mary_o_donohue , who won re-election on pataki 's ticket , comptroller alan_hevesi and attorney gen eliot_spitzer are also sworn in . ceremony described .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column recalls that dusty foggo was named to no . 3 post at cia , which he has just resigned under a cloud , only after michael_kostiw , porter_goss 's first choice for job back in 2004 , was revealed to have been forced out of agency for shoplifting a package of bacon two decades earlier . says goss 's own departure from agency has opened window on whole new level of incompetence , turf wars , corruption and wackiness .
 federal prosecutors in kentucky charge coal mine operator ross_harris and nine co-defendants with conspiracy to funnel $ 41,000 in illegal campaign contributions to john_doug_hays , candidate for pike_county_district_judgeship . contend money was used in vote-buying scheme masquerading as ` vote-hauling , ' offering of transportation to polls . ` vote-hauling ' is legal in kentucky . 686 people received $ 50 checks and sample ballots with hays ' name marked . prosecutors must convince jury this is ` wink-and-nod ' conspiracy .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg suggests that gov george_e_pataki is trying to claim share of federal money that city needs to defend itself against terrorist attacks . is referring to tens of millions of dollars in defense money that congress is set to approve to help most vulnerable states and cities across nation defend themselves against terrorist attacks . sens charles_e_schumer and hillary_rodham_clinton have led effort in senate to get federal antieterrorist funds for new_york .
 white_house releases 18 months of pres bush 's national guard payroll records from 1972 and 1973 , showing what it calls proof that bush fully completed his guard service . refuses to say records , which show only 82 specific days that bush was paid for his services , definitively prove that bush reported for duty on those dates . says bush recalls showing up and performing his duties . faces intense election-year pressure from democrats , who say bush shirked military duty . chronology of bush military service .
 australia 's woodside_energy 's new american chief executive don_voelte wants to accelerate company 's expansion . volte warned governments of australia and east timor in late july that woodside would suspend development on greater sunrise gas field that lies in timor sea unless two sides settled bitter boundary and revenue dispute . company also informed australian government that it wanted talks completed by december or it will pull out woodside workers at project , which is valued at $ 3.7 billion .
 major internet providers america online , earthlink , yahoo and microsoft file lawsuits to shut down leading senders of junk e-mail , invoking new federal antispam law that took effect jan 1 . seek monetary damages and injunctions against different groups of suspected spammers . 62 percent of all e-mail in february was spam , up from 58 percent in december before law took effect . photo . graph . aol sues davis_wolfgang_hawke , former neo-nazi group leader selling penis enlargement pills . microsoft sues jdo media over multilevel marketing scheme . yahoo sues golddisk.net and related companies in ontario over mortgage and travel e-mail . all four also sue 220 yet unidentified spammers , many operating offshore .
 chang-woo han 's business of running japan 's largest chain of pachinko parlors is growing despite economic downturn in japan . han is founder and chairman of maruhan_corp , which presides over 121-shop empire that took in 576 billion yen -lrb- $ 4.8 billion -rrb- last year from players who put money into pachinko , sort of vertical pinball game . maruhan 's sales have almost tripled since 1998 , and han expects them to double again by 2005 . pachinko is big business in japan , with total revenue of about 28 trillion yen -lrb- $ 233 billion -rrb- per year .
 gruner_&_jahr is assuming more muscular role in powerful german newsmagazine der spiegel over objections of family of late founder , rudolf_augstein . at issue is whether augstein 's children will be left with any influence over magazine he ran , with charisma and combativeness , until his death in 2002 at 79 . they now own less than 25 percent of magazine , while gruner_&_jahr owns 25.5 percent and magazines squabbling employees own 50.5 percent .
 federated department stores on sept 9 will rename over 400 stores in 11 regional chains as macy_'s . brands , acquired in 2005 as part of $ 11 billion merger with may department stores , include number of venerable names like marshall field 's and filene 's . focus groups signaled that renaming of stores could be public relations disaster . federated chief executive terry j lundgren crisscrossed country and met with company officials as part of campaign to neutralize opposition before it gathered strength .
 artist marc_mascort i boix heads team that will enter plan by barcelona visionary architect antoni_gaudi in formal ground zero memorial design competition scheduled to begin this spring . gaudi conceived design in 1908 for new_york hotel and mascort has made computer models from gaudi 's design . american artist and architect paul_laffoley has mounted separate effort to win consideration for gaudi_design . profile of gaudi . details of plan noted .
 some new_york republicans grumble about leadership of gov george_e_pataki_after_party loses seats in state_senate and assembly and sen charles_e_schumer wins re-election with record 71 percent of vote . conservatives , who have given party its past margins of victory , are angered by republican efforts to gain democratic votes . party is splitting into one faction aligned with pataki and another aligned with former party chairman william_powers . pataki is hoping his choice of steve_minarik as party chairman will smooth hard feelings .
 nation pays grim tribute to 2,000 american_service members who have died in iraq since invasion of 2003 , one in five of whom were in their second , third , fourth or fifth tours of duty in iraq and afghanistan . collective stories of the war dead describe painful stresses and recurring strains that an extended conflict , with all its demands for multiple tours , is placing on families , towns and military itself as they struggle to console living while burying the dead .
 laith al-ani has been released from american prison at camp_bucca in iraq three weeks after his last letter home appeared in new_york times series of articles on iraq 's troubled detention and justice system . ani and other former detainees now living in syria describe life in sprawling complex . charge abuse by american_guards . ani was never actually charged with crime during his two-year detention .
 virginia gov mark warner grants clemency to convicted killer robin_lovitt , saying loss of key piece of evidence persuades him that lovitt should not be put to death as scheduled . execution would have been 1,000 th since supreme_court reinstated capital punishment in 1976 . warner , who has never before granted clemency , points to improper discarding of scissors that lovitt allegedly used to kill pool hall manager in arlington in 1998 . dna testing at time was inconclusive and lovitt 's lawyers say more modern tests could have shown him innocent .
 sars appears to be spreading in taiwan as fast or faster than anywhere except mainland china , prompting world health organization to prepare to send team there despite risk of creating diplomatic tensions with beijing . taiwan announces that it has 11 more confirmed cases , number that has more than tripled in last_10_days . five people die of sars in taiwan , raising its death toll to eight .
 john_r_malik , retired police detective , shoots manuel_chametla , 18 , at deli in astoria , queens . police say gun may have discharged as malik reached for his pager . chametla , deli worker , dies at scene as malik tries to give first aid . chametla 's father and co-workers believe malik was showing off his gun when it went off .
 job seekers are having difficult time finding work . according to dept_of_labor , 25 percent of nine million unemployed have been out of work for more than 27 weeks . new_york_city advertising firm dimassimo brand consultancy has created job competition styled after survivor reality tv show in which 10 contestants will compete for entry-level job at agency . other unorthodox job-hunting techniques noted .
 two teams of architects are selected as finalists in competition to create design for world trade center site . each of designs includes what would be tallest buildings in world , though in both plans , towers ' upper reaches are not occupied by offices . rather , there is memorial observation deck in one case , and hanging garden in the other . two teams , studio daniel_libeskind , headed by berlin-based architect daniel_libeskind , and think team , headed by architects frederic_schwartz , rafael_vinoly and ken_smith of new_york , and shigeru ban of tokyo , will now work with rebuilding officials on refinements to their designs . one team is to be selected as winner by end of month . rebuilding officials from lower_manhattan_development_corp , port authority and offices of mayor and governor are effusive in their praise for two plans .
 dell_computer , world 's leading maker of personal computers , says second-quarter earnings should be 31 cents a share , or 2 cents above its previous estimate and consensus of analysts . outlook is based on second-quarter revenue of $ 11.7 billion . announcement comes day after ibm reports quarterly profits that surpass wall street estimates . research firm idc reports that personal computer shipments were more robust in april , may and june than expected .
 investors wonder why berkshire_hathaway , warren_e_buffett 's investment company , has increased its stake in petrochina , state-controlled oil company that is largest in china . berkshire hathaway currently holds more than 9 percent of petrochina 's publicly traded shares , or about 1 percent of company as a whole . investment is notable departure from buffett 's previous approach to investing outside united_states , and it has aroused considerable interest in china 's fast-evolving oil industry .
 sk telecom shares drop 8.1 percent after company buys 2.73 percent of pohang iron and steel from sk_corp for $ 332.5 billion won -lrb- $ 281.63 million -rrb- . deal reflects cronyism in korea 's conglomerates , with some investors seeing deal aimed at propping up sk_corp , while others believe sk would have gotten higher price on open market . sk telecom further perplexes corporate critics by holding it bought stake because posco holds 6.83 percent of its shares that it might have sold .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column compares approaches of former pres clinton and pres bush in dealing with north_korea 's nuclear program . says clinton 's negotiated approach prevented north_korea from making single ounce of plutonium . says in contrast , north_korea has obtained enough plutonium for 10 nuclear weapons under bush 's watch . says bush 's strategy of persuading proxies to help has been failure . says there is no substitute for direct engagement and negotiation .
 task of sustaining military operations in iraq and 155,000 american and allied troops there falls to unsung supply lifeline of ground convoys from kuwait and complex air bridge of cargo flights from united_states and europe . air_force uses fleets of three air_force cargo planes , c-130 , c-17 and c-5 . huge task described .
 editorial says united_states pledged to contribute 0.7 percent of its national income for development aid for poor countries when it joined 188 other countries in signing united_nations millennium declaration . says latest figures , third of way into program , show that us , richest nation in world , is giving lowest amount , 0.14 percent .
 federal reserve chairman alan_greenspan urges lawmakers to impose sharp limits on $ 1.5 trillion holdings of fannie_mae and freddie_mac as congress again begins work on legislation to strengthen oversight of two mortgage finance companies , speech before senate banking committee . says enormous portfolios of companies -- nearly quarter of home-mortgage market -- poses significant risks to nation 's financial system should either company face significant problems .
 zoo atlanta is paying chinese government $ 2 million a year to rent pair of crowd-pleasing pandas . after first year of display , crowds usually dwindle , while expenses to maintain them remain five times more than cost of keeping elephant . financial headaches caused by costly loans of animals from china are leading zoo directors to try to renegotiate loan agreements . most agreements are for ten-year leases , and if cub is born , annual fee increases by average of $ 600,000 .
 halliburton co says it may try to reduce its role as largest private contractor in iraq after learning that army plans to break apart its largest contract in country to attract other companies to bid for work . army 's decision would divide more than $ 12 billion of work in iraq among several companies instead of one . halliburton has come under criticism for its handling of contract , including accusations taht it overcharged defense_department for some of its services . halliburton chief executive david_lesar comments .
 western reporters have been locked down in baghdad for months because it has been too dangerous to spend time in places like sadr_city and falluja . with exception of few european reporters , there were few outsiders to document fighting in najaf and karbala between rebel_shiite_muslim_cleric_moktada_al-sadr ` s forces and us troops . only when iraq calms down will it become clear how well its most critical moments were covered .
 boeing chief executive harry_c_stonecipher , who was brought out of retirement 15 months ago to clean up company 's image after defense procurement scandal , is forced to resign after admitting affair with company executive . chairman lewis e platt says board acted after he got anonymous tip ten days ago , because of potential embarrassment to company . say woman does not directly report to stonecipher , 68 , who is married and has grown children .
 sen jon_corzine says he is prepared to run for governor of new jersey if special election is held this year but expects that gov james_mcgreevey 's will not leave office until nov 15 , when state_senate leader richard_codey would serve out term . tiptoeing between criticism and support highlights corzine 's predicament following mcgreevey 's political demise .
 federal agents in new_york , connecticut , california and washington state charge 13 men with plotting to buy weapons for sri_lankan_separatist_group_liberation_tigers_of_tamil_eelam . they are also charged with bribing agents posing as state_department officials to remove group from list of foreign terrorist organizations . three suspects are american and others are from sri lanka , india and canada . man identified as principal liaison between leader of terrorist group and international supporters is still being sought .
 harvey_araton sports of the times_column_discusses_boston_red_sox fans ' reception of new_york_yankees pitcher roger_clemens , who celebrated his 100th win at fenway_park , where he was once pitcher for red sox . while red sox fans once jeered clemens for his departure to toronto blue jays , they cheered him as he left mound for , likely , last time .
 georgian government is building new schools , homes and government buildings as part of campaign to gain control of two separatist republics -- abkhazia and south_ossetia . both violently resisted georgia 's efforts to assert authority over them when soviet_union fell apart , and still openly defy georgia 's claims to their territory . georgia hopes to entice republics into fold by showing what can be gained from pledging allegiance to government in tbilisi . georgia also wants to send message to russia , which it blames for supporting separatist republics .
 judge edmund a sargus jr rules that ohio_edison violated clean air act when it failed to install improved pollution controls at coal-burning power plant . ruling is major victory for new_york , new jersey and connecticut , which have joined epa in lawsuits over acid rain . nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxides emitted by some 70 such power plants in ohio_valley are blamed for 80 percent to 90 percent of acid rain deposits in adirondacks .
 wales is so lacking in british government-subsidized dental treatment that 600 people recently lined up outside dental office in carmarthen seeking one of 300 advertised appointments to see national_health_service dentist . some pitched tents overnight and others came from 90 miles away . ever fewer british dentists are willing to endure grueling , assembly-line work required to take part in national_health_service .
 britain 's state-financed dental service , stretched beyond its limit , no longer serves everyone and no longer even pretends to try . just 49 percent of adults and 63 percent of children were registered with public dentists in england and wales at beginning of this year . many patients are in terrible shape by time they get to see dentist , and others have taken to doing it themselves .
 thousands of people are forced to leave homes along delaware_river after heavy rains from remnants of hurricane ivan cause waters to rise to highest levels in decades . photo . river spills over banks along 80-mile stretch from easton , pa , as far south as trenton , uprooting at least one house in phillipsburg , new jersey . state workers fill sandbags to protect office buildings .
 israel arrests 33 prominent west bank palestinians , including cabinet minister , three legislators and three mayors , calling them ` senior members of the hamas terror organization ' . israel and many western nations consider hamas terrorist organization . latest arrests coincide with israeli airstrikes against money-changing offices and businesses in gaza_strip that army says has been transferring money to hamas and other miiltant organizations . arrests represent broadening of israel 's campaign against hamas since group resumed rocket fire against israel 10 days ago , ending six-month gaza cease-fire .
 pres bush recently unveiled $ 2.57 trillion budget for 2006 , largest in nation 's history . former house speaker newt_gingrich says republicans have lost their way . 73 freshman republicans in house in 1995 pushed through budget resolution that called for eliminating scores of programs and three federal departments . their fervor was so politically potent that pres bill clinton declared that era of big government was over . 28 of republican revolutionaries who are still in house sponsored bills in last congress that would have increased government spending overall .
 al thompson , owner of cencal aviation products who stopped withholding taxes from paychecks of his workers in 2000 and showed thousands of others how to do same , is snetenced to six years in prison . federal judge_william_b_shubb calls thompson incorrigible and says six-year sentence assures that thompson does not profit from his crimes . thompson is accused of cheating government out of $ 259,000 .
 kristin_hohenadel article on french films about money , topic that is considered indiscreet , tactless , vulgar and vaguely american in french society . focuses on philippe_le_guay 's film the cost of living , which will be shown at lincoln_center as part of film society 's rendez-vous with french_cinema_festival , tonie_marshall 's film france boutique and if i were a rich man by michel_munz and gerard_bitton .
 sen john_kerry addresses hundreds of overjoyed workers and die-hard supporters at his victory rally in des_moines , iowa , after iowa caucuses . alludes to his terrible 2003 , when he squandred daunting lead in polls and withstood months of withering criticism , only to shake up his campaign , overhaul his message and his style of reaching voters and make his last stand in iowa . his struggle recalled .
 shinzo abe rose to become postwar japan 's youngest prime minister by hewing to conservative , nationalist agenda . he stood tough against china and north_korea , and championed right 's touchstone causes on history . abe , 52 , has made beeline toward center in month that he has been prime minister , reaching out to china and south_korea as region confronts north_korea 's recent nuclear test . he has made surprising admissions about japan 's militarist past , assuaging regional tensions that emerged under his predecessor , junichiro_koizumi .
 daniel_altman economic view column on assessing impact of pres bush 's tax-relief package , in whatever form it is eventually enacted , on economy and job creation . notes council of economic advisers has predicted that economy by itself , without fiscal stimulus , would grow 2.9 percent in 2003 and 3.6 percent in 2004 , adding 4.1 million jobs from july to_end_of 2004 . job creation graph .
 bush administration denies giving israel approval for killing of hamas leader dr abdel_aziz_rantisi and expresses dismay at timing of killing , shortly after prime min ariel_sharon met with pres bush in washington . reiterates view that israel has right to defend itself , but urges israel to consider more carefully consequences of its actions .
 hud_department finds numerous violations in nassau_county , new_york 's , use of federal housing and redevelopment grants and demands return of nearly $ 1.2 million . county exec thomas_r_suozzi promises remedial actions . peter t sylver resigned last year amid charges of misusing funds of programs he headed . fbi and other probes continue .
 charles_isherwood appreciation of arthur_miller contends that he may or may not be greatest playwright america has produced . holds that eugene_o'neill and tennessee_williams have equal , if not more , claim to that phantom title , but miller is most american of country 's greatest playwrights . says irony is that miller 's strongest plays are fired by convictions that assail some of central ideals enshrined in american culture .
 study conducted by nonprofit_tri-state_transportation_campaign , based on federal data for traffic fatalities from 1998 through 2002 , finds that new_york 's four most dangerous roads are in suffolk_county . finds that jericho turnpike had greatest number of deaths , 78 , followed by sunrise highway with 71 . long island expressway is distant third with 38 deaths , followed by route 25a with 35 .
 washington mutual , whose ` free ' checking accounts are centerpiece of its ad campaign , informs 188,000 customers with interest-bearing accounts that that they must pay $ 12 monthly service charge unless they keep balance of at least $ 1,500 each day of statement month . accounts were originally at four banks washington mutual acquired during 1990 's . bank does not explicitly tell these customers that free checking is still available to those who forgo interest .
 residents of eldorado , tex , are deeply suspicious of fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saints , polygamous sect that split from mormons 70 years ago and has recently established new base on yearning for zion ranch . recent fissures in larger community in colorado_city -lrb- ariz -rrb- have prompted speculation that sect leader warren_jeffs , who is target of sexual abuse investigation in utah , may be seeking new home for many of his 6,000 followers . some people in eldorado fear influx of new residents who could dominate small community .
 new_york state judge_john_cataldo will consider wideranging inquiry into new_york_city 's detention of hundreds of protesters during last_summer 's republican national convention . may issue subpoenas to compel city and state officials to testify about police detention tactics , in response to request by hundreds of people who were held at hudson_river pier .
 conservative leaders are blaming one another for potential republican losses in coming congressional elections . taxcutters call evangelicals bullies . christian conservatives say republicans in congress have let them down . hawks say pres bush is bungling war in iraq . others blame rep mark_foley 's sexual messages to teenage pages . comments by social conservative tony_perkins , neoconservatives david_frum and william_kristol and economic conservatives grover_norquist and pat_toomey .
 sergio_marchionne , new chief executive of fiat_group , says his company will vigorously defends its right to sell its auto business to general_motors , move gm has said it will contest in court if need be . fiat won right as part of broad partnership with gm in 2000 . marchionne says fiat joined with gm with understanding that it could be first step to merger of its auto unit with gm .
 shares of amerco , company that controls u-haul , have nearly tripled since it sought chapter 11 protection in june . rise of stock coincides with unusual public relations campaign by amerco 's chairman edward_j_shoen , who has been meeting with groups of potential shareholders and talking up amerco 's shares . approach has alarmed some holders of amerco 's nearly $ 600 million in bonds , who think company has too much debt and want stock to satisfy at least part of their claims . stock closes at $ 11.85 , up from $ 4.08 at time of chapter 11 filing and $ 1.36 in october .
 group of 728 men , women and children formed line at algonquin arts theater in manasquan , nj , on august 17 in hopes of breaking guinness world record for assembling longest dance kick line . crowd , led by handful of former rockettes and aspiring rockettes , surpassed record of 535 set by princeton_university 's triangle_club in 1991 .
 architects say preservation emergency is taking place at finca_vigia , ernest_hemingway 's country villa in san_francisco de paula , cuba . deteriorating structure , cared for over years by hemingway_international_institute_of_journalism in havana , seems threatened by storm of politics . bush administration has denied hemingway_preservation_foundation , group of american preservationists , architects and hemingway biographers , license that would exempt it from us economic embargo and allow it to provide funds and expertise to help restore house .
 political debate in mexico has been dominated for months by escalating war between populist mayor of mexico city , andres_manuel_lopez_obrador , and pres vicente fox . photo . two sides call temporary cease-fire , but dispute reflects abiding fear among business leaders and conservatives that messianic leftist mayor has secret aim of rolling back ten years of economic liberalization and introducing lavish social programs government can not afford .
 european union says it would resume negotiations with serbia on agreement that is first stop toward possible membership , just one week after arrest and transfer of leading bosnian serb war crimes suspect zdravko_tolimir to united_nations war crimes tribunal in the hague . it is seen as victory for serbia 's reformist president boris_tadic .
 regional plan assn writes draft report opposing construction of $ 1.4 billion football stadium in manhattan for new_york jets . is first major civic group in city to publicly criticize key element of mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's ambitious $ 6.5 billion plan to redevelop far west side with expanded convention center , new subway extension , skyscrapers , apartment houses , parks and stadium .
 forest city ratner companies receives go-ahead from justice_carol_edmead to demolish six derelict buildings it owns on site of proposed atlantic yards development in brooklyn . edmead also disqualifies environmental lawyer david_paget 's work for forest_city_ratner because of earlier work he did for empire_state_development_corp on atlantic yards , calling it conflict of interest . ratner hopes to build 9.1 million square feet , including basketball arena .
 palestinians set off powerful bomb in lengthy tunnel they dug under israeli military base in southern gaza_strip , wounding at least five soldiers . israel 's air_force strikes back with two separate missile strikes in gaza_city , hitting metal workshop in one strike . israel has frequently hit metal workshops , saying they are used to make weapons . bombing is not expected to change prime min ariel_sharon 's plans to withdraw israeli soldiers and settlers from gaza by end of next year .
 federal judge jed s rakoff approves agreement for worldcom to pay $ 750 million to settle accounting fraud lawsuit by securities_and_exchange_commission . ruling ends monetary phase of complex suit , which is unfolding in tandem with worldcom 's bankruptcy proceedings in another federal court in new_york . deal reflects worldcom 's agreement to $ 2.25 billion penalty , but settlement assumes that actual payment will be reduced as part of worldcom 's proposed reorganization in bankruptcy .
 arts briefing column . bonn 's beethoven_orchestra_conductor_laurentius_bonitz calls ridiculous suit in which 16 violinists are seeking additional $ 110 for each rehearsal or performance and objecting to provision in contract that gives bonuses to soloists . new book by pope john_paul_ii , get up let us go ! , autobiographical reflection about his life since 1958 , will be published by mondadori on pope 's 84th_birthday , may 18 . horror writers stephen_king and stewart_o'nan are collaborating on book about boston_red_sox .
 efforts are under way to reduce population of feral cats and to get cat owners to keep pets indoors . advocates say cats kill birds , perhaps in millions or hundreds of millions , and spread rabies , feline leukemia and other disease . united_states has 73 million pet cats with homes of their own . estimates of feral population run up to 100 million .
 profile of spanish architect santiago_calatrava , who has two high-profile projects in new_york_city : $ 2 billion transportation_hub for ground zero and residential tower comprising 12 cantilevered cubes on south street , overlooking east_river . metropolitan museum of art , which rarely features architects in its galleries , will open show of calatrava 's sculpture , watercolors , drawings and architectural designs in october .
 saks fifth avenue 's new management plans to rip out much of $ 125 million renovation in its flagship store in manhattan and spend $ 150 million more on even more striking remodeling of store . chief executive fred_wilson says he intends to overhaul entire $ 2.6 billion chain , which includes 63 stores . is considering closing significant number of branches . adds changes are necessary to bring saks ` back to its roots ' as luxury emporium .
 demonstrations are held in newark and union_city , nj , to protest fatal police shooting of jose_luis_ives jr and michael_newkirk . newkirk was shot by office thomas_ruane in newark , and ives died after encounter with off-duty officer , alejandro_jaramillo , in union_city . protesters call for independent commission to investigate police brutality in new jersey .
 queen mary 2 , 1,132-foot - long cunard line cruise ship , is set to make its maiden visit to new_york_city . will clear verrazano narrows bridge by only 13 feet at high tide and extend more than 100 feet past its pier into hudson_river . is most expensive ship in world , both to build and board .
 white_house releases monsoon of information about pres bush 's national_guard_service and minutiae of his younger days , including 1966 summer job at sears and diagram of his dental fillings . photo . documents do little to resolve debate about where , when and how often bush turned up for guard duty in 1972 and 1973 .
 federal reserve 's open market committee is expected to raise short-term interest rates to 3 percent , from 2.75 percent , eighth increase since last june . fed is likely to repeat its support for gradual , or measured , rate increases in months ahead . approach comes against backdrop of slowing growth and higher price pressures . institute of supply management 's index of factory activity dropped to 53.3 in april , from 55.2 , as companies focused more on reducing inventories than on expanding production .
 federal jury in burlington , vermont , recommends death sentence for donald fell in kidnapping and murder of terry_king . photos . fell stole king 's car after killing his mother and her friend in rutland in 2000 and bludgeoned her after crossing into new_york . vermont abolished death penalty in 1987 but federal government took jurisdiction because crime crossed state lines .
 provision in $ 69 billion tax cut legislation increases taxes for americans living abroad by $ 2.1 billion over next 10 years . focuses on allowances that employers pay to cover higher costs that are incurred by taking job abroad . americans living overseas will pay about 6 percent more with some individuals paying as much as quadruple what they were paying previously .
 city lore column on walter_grutchfield , 68 , who has lived in new_york_city for 40 years and , as part of effort to record ephemera and variety of signage , is photographing and researching every old sign painted on buildings in manhattan between 14th street and 42nd streets . american sign museum is to open this summer in cincinnati with collection of more than 200 signs and thousands of photos of advertising spectaculars .
 choice of gen michael_v_hayden as next director of cia prompts concern on capitol_hill , where some lawmakers are worried about loss of civilian leadership at agency . throughout its history , cia has prided itself for its independence , flair and a culture that values truth-telling and risk-taking over deference to authority . sen richard_j_durbin says he is concerned that hayden may not be able to provide pres bush with independent voice he needs at cia .
 petronas twin towers in kuala_lumpur , malaysia , world 's tallest at 1,438 feet , has much unrented space because rents have been kept at double the market rate during an economic slump . building management added airport-style security since sept 11 , complete with x-ray machines and metal detectors . tenants are required to undergo training for three types of disaster , and can evacuate 88-story building in just 32 minutes . asian cities vie to establish economic dominance and lay claim to tallest-building title , putting aside any fears about tempting terrorists . shanghai and taipei are building towering buildings , and seoul plans one .
 three police officers are indicted on charges that they beat boris_nkari , cabdriver , after issuing him ticket for double-parking in brooklyn on march 8 . james_feola , gregory_hepp and francis_sanzone are charged with assault . feola and hepp are also charged with submitting false charges against nkari . charges against nkari are dropped .
 studies conducted over last few years find icelanders suffer less from winter-related depression than people in many southern climates , including those on east coast of united_states . in iceland , winter lasts until may , and at its height provides only four hours of feeble light a day . andres magnusson , psychiatrist who has worked on several studies on icelanders and depression , says their cheerful acceptance of winter appears to be genetic adaption , result of centuries of living in adverse lighting conditions .
 pres bush , who is meeting with british prime min tony_blair , is expected to call for europe to take over key role in helping build peace in israel . death of palestinian leader yasir_arafat has created climate for possible changes in region and many european leaders want us to more actively help moderate palestinians and put more pressure on israel . arab and palestinian leaders are increasingly skeptical of israel 's plans for withdrawal from gaza .
 yale_university reaches agreement with clerical , maintenance and food workers , ending three-week strike that disrupted start of academic year . settlement will raise some salaries by 40 percent over eight years , and 30 percent increase in pension formula tied to wage increase will nearly double pension . yale 's president , richard_c_levin , and john_w_wilhelm , union 's president , comment .
 glaxosmithkline , in effort to become major supplier of flu shots to us , will pay $ 1.4 billion to acquire id biomedical , canadian vaccine maker . deal comes one week after novartis offered $ 4.5 billion for 58 percent of chiron it does not already own , which would put novartis in vaccine business . chiron has rejected offer as too low .
 actor laurence_fishburne buys upper_west_side_penthouse co-op from alberta_wright , restaurant owner . recently sold his west 57th street condo . record label executive alan meltzer agrees to pay $ 27 million for apartment at lexington ave and 58th street . corcoran group moves to cut its ties to palm_beach , fla , broker peter_david_burt , charged with trying to set up sexual encounter with underage girls via internet . barry_leistner plans to build small condominium building on charles street , greenwich_village .
 each day that war continues in iraq increases pressure on king_abdullah_ii_of_jordan , who allowed thousands of american troops to be stationed in jordan 's eastern_desert next to iraq in expectation of short war . jordanian intelligentsia , islamists and ordinary people grow increasingly dubious about government 's contention that those troops are not playing active role inside iraq . abdullah 's balancing act between friendship to us and street anger grows ever more delicate .
 footlights column : actress-singer rebecca_spencer is performing in cabaret at west_bank cafe in manhattan . alice v feeley takes first place in 32nd annual poetry contest in greenburgh , ny . other winners noted . music conservatory of westchester dean robert_arthurs is performing in concerts and clubs in manhattan , westchester and elsewhere . mamaroneck 's innovative stages is sponsoring its first competition for student playwrights .
 randy_rossi , director of california_firearms division , intervenes in federal bankruptcy trial in way that could enable 17-year-old brandon_maxfield to buy out and shut down manufacturer of semiautomatic handgun with design flaw that has left him paralyzed from neck down since age 7 . rossi tells court that designated purchaser paul_jimenez lacks state firearms licenses . maxfield , who was shot when baby sitter tried to unload bryco gun , won record $ 24-million jury award aganst bryco arms and gun designer bruce_jennings . maxfield and attorney richard_ruggieri are trying to raise at least $ 150,000 to buy out company , one of leading makers of cheap handguns .
 alison_leigh_cowan analysis on challenges facing connecticut 's new governor , m jodi_rell , and advice she is getting from old hands in state gpvernment . they say she should pick two or three priorties within greach , starting with ethics , ask every commissioner to submit letter of resignation , and continue to live in brookfield rather than in governor 's mansion , where gov john_g_rowland and his family have lived for last nine years .
 timothy_garton ash op-ed article says ukraine 's and turkey 's desire for membership in european_union is tribute to magnetic power of body that american policymakers have dangerously underrated in last four years . says european_union 's agreement to open membership negotiations with turkey will be bigger contribution to winning war on terrorism than american-led occupation of iraq . says most distinctive feature of european power is that european_union is getting larger while us is not .
 wendy moonan antiques column traces life of british aesthetic movement architect and designer thomas_jeckyll in light of exhibition at bard_graduate_center for studies in the decorative arts , design and culture in manhattan . bonhams in london auctions painting by british sporting art master george_stubbs for $ 3 million , record for stubbs_horse painting without human figure .
 nfl europe will proceed with its season despite concerns about backlash from war in iraq . players will leave their training camps over next couple of days for teams in berlin , frankfurt , dusseldorf , barcelona , amsterdam and glasgow . will open season april 5-6 . there has been some concern by owners that trouble could be lurking for american players in europe because of war protests and possibility of terrorist attacks . nfl comr paul_tagliabue says owners are determined to move forward .
 caryn_james_critic 's notebook column on novels written after 9/11 but before 7/7 about terrorist attacks on world trade center and ones that were expected in london . focuses on ian_mcewan 's saturday , michael_cunningham 's specimen days , patrick_mcgrath 's ghost town : tales of manhattan then and now and chris_cleave 's incendiary .
 chinese prime min wen jiabao sets government priority on narrowing politically volatile gap between urban rich and rural poor . promises only modest 14.2 percent increase in government spending to $ 42.3 billion to address problem . announces 14.7 percent increase in military spending for 2006 to $ 35.3 billion , though some american and european military experts say actual military budget is two or three times higher .
 research firms that designed $ 10 million polling system used by news organizations during 2004 's presidential election have concluded that system erroneously showed john_kerry to be leading race not because of technological breakdown but because of more human variables . these included relative youth of pollsters , who were more successful securing interviews with supporters of kerry as they left polling places than with those of actual winner , pres bush . firms are edison_media_research and mitofsky_international .
 police in east_new_york , brooklyn , charge jamel_robinson and dashorn washington , neighborhood 15-year-olds , with beating to death billy_pearson , 51-year-old homeless man . say teenagers were looking for someone to rob when they found pearson sleeping in parked car at 3 am . say beating took place along four-block stretch . residents say pearson had been sleeping on streets for years .
 protests against french government 's new first employment contract youth labor law have spread to 150 cities and towns and confront prime min dominique de villepin with one of most serious crises of his 10 months in office . law is set to take effect in april and will allow employers to fire new workers under age of 26 without cause for two years . goal is to ease chronic high unemployment , particularly among poor youth who rioted last fall .
 article on victoria_gonin , suburban new jersey mother who has raised thousands of dollars to benefit breast cancer victims through her charity , womenade , and scott_delea , 32 , who is single and who has raised thousands of dollars through party with purpose . womenade holds pot luck dinners for mothers in mountain lakes , nj , while delea 's charity holds parties in bars to benefit various nonprofit groups .
 taliban has increased attacks on american and afghan security forces in eastern afghanistan . rate of american combat deaths is much higher this year than in 2003 while afghan deaths seem to be up by 50 percent . central government has weak hold in south and east , where popular support for taliban is greatest . taliban campaign aims to disrupt scheduled elections , but roughly 8 of 10 million eligible voters have defied taliban by registering to vote .
 george j tenet , departing director of central intelligence , sends letter to congress stating that cia is ` increasingly skeptical ' that sept 11 hijacker mohamed atta met iraqi intelligence officer in prague in apr 2001 , event vice pres dick_cheney says might have taken place . tenet says it is unlikely atta would have taken such a risk when sept 11 plot was well under way . within bush administration , cheney has been most vigorous proponent of theory that iraq and al_qaeda had collaborative relationship before sept 11 attacks , even after presidential commission investigating attacks concluded that there is no evidence of such a relationship .
 virginia_postrel_economic_scene_column urges repeal of so-called wright amendment , 1979 federal law that was intended to protect newly built dallas-fort_worth_international_airport . notes that law allows full-size planes to fly from love field , which is not far from downtown dallas , only to adjacent states , thus keeping southwest , which is based in love field , from flying between it and host of popular destinations and providing some healthy competition to american_airlines , which has hub at dallas-fort_worth .
 nbc_universal and paxson_communications end protracted and complicated negotiation that will result in departure of lowell_w_paxson as chairman of pax communications and opportunity for nbc_universal to develop partnership to control company . nbc executive brandon_burgess will become chief executive of paxson . burgess says paxson 's stations present wide range of opportunities . nbc_universal can not control paxson_assets_because_federal_communications_commission rules limit number of stations one company can own , and with paxson 's 60 broadcast stations nbc would far exceed limit . deal calls for nbc to find controlling partner for company within 18 months .
 southwest_airlines ' advertising blitz promoting its upcoming phildelphia service marks departure from carrier 's usual tactic of establishing itself at lesser-used airports and attracting customers with heavily discounted fares . competitor us airways , which emerged from chapter 11 protection just_10_months_ago , has responded by putting its own philadelphia operations up for sale . southwest 's philadelphia_service , scheduled to begin in may , is also seen as threat to airlines servicing new_york , including continental and jetblue , and has sparked concerns among carriers such as american and united , who fear company may have designs on another big city .
 afl-cio is developing working america , advocacy group to lobby alongside labor unions on various issues such as minimum wage and overtime . has recruited 400,000 members since 2003 , and is adding 20,000 per week . percentage of workers in labor unions has dropped to 12.9 percent from high of 35 percent in 1950 's . service employees international is making similar effort to develop purple ocean_group_of_labor_sympathizers .
 article on corporation for public_broadcasting 's ambitious america at a crossroads project , $ 20 million , 3-year undertaking devoted to films examining america 's role in post-9 / 11 world . preliminary grants have been awarded to british producer brian lapping for film on neoconservative and former bush administration adviser and iraq war advocate richard_perle and , for political balance , to sherry_jones and associate , who will examine how bush doctrine has alienated traditional american allies , tarnished america 's image abroad and possibly made world more dangerous .
 queens grand jury indicts three police detectives in killing of sean_bell , who died in burst of 50 bullets outside jamaica strip club hours before he was to be wed last year . detectives gescard f isnora and michael_oliver are charged with manslaughter . detective marc_cooper faces lesser charge of reckless endangerment . they are among five police officers who fired into car carrying bell and his friends , joseph_guzman and trent_benefield , during confrontation on nov 25 , 2006 . neither bell nor his friends , both of whom were wounded , were armed . diagram .
 arbitration panel rules that merrill_lynch discriminated against its female stockbrokers and orders $ 2.2-million payment to one of them , e hydie summer , which could bolster claims of some 40 other women . firm has already paid more than $ 100 million to hundreds of other women who joined class-action suit more than five years ago . merrill and smith_barney are settling mass claims of sex discrimination filed in late 1990 's . panel also rejects merrill 's explanations for dearth of women in senior positions .
 truck loaded with explosives blows up near government complex in northern_chechnya , killing at least 41 people and wounding scores more . officials call it suicidal terrorist attack . region has until now escaped worst of russia 's war against chechen separatists . none of chechnya 's known separatist groups claims responsibilty for attack . it is worst violence there since russia held constitutional referendum in march as part of kremlins 's efforts to hasten peaceful end to war after 44 months of violence . pres vladimir_v_putin says attack is intended to disrupt efforts to foster stability in chechnya under loose political federation with russia .
 electronic data systems , which has been battered in last year by earnings shortfalls and questions about its accounting practices , says chief executive richard_h_brown is leaving and will be succeeded by michael_h_jordan , retired chairman and chief executive of cbs . also says jeffrey_m_heller , longtime executive who retired year ago as vice chairman , has returned as president and chief operating officer . also says annual meeting will be pushed back to may 20_from april 22 .
 many unemployed people , worn out by long job searches , have stopped looking for work , entering invisible ranks of people not counted in unemployment rate . some are going back to school or getting new job training , others are caring for children or aging parents and relying on spouse 's salary . others are plainly waiting for economy to improve . portion of americans either working or actively looking for work has fallen 0.9 percentage points in last_two_years , to 66.2 percent . over 74.5 million adults are considered outside of labor_force , up over 4 million since mar 2001 .
 tight new jersey senatorial race between democratic sen robert_menendez and republican thomas_h_kean jr gets infusion from national parties of political advertising , volunteers and national political figures . new_york state gubernatorial candidates democrat eliot_spitzer and republican john_faso and democratic senatorial candidate hillary_rodham_clinton attend rallies for candidates in new_york . connecticut senatorial candidates democrat ned_lamont and independent joseph_i_lieberman continue their campaigning .
 annual report to congress by trustees of social security and medicare says social security reserves will be depleted in 2041 , one year earlier than was projected last year , but warns that medicare 's financial outlook is worse . predicts monthly medicare premiums will rise by 12 percent next year after 17 percent increase this year and that its hospital trust fund will be depleted in 2020 . pres bush 's top legislative priority this year is to transform social security , although he has conceded that plan for private accounts would not improve financial condition .
 group set up by lower manhattan development corporation and trade center memorial foundation is to review eight alternative plans for memorial at world trade center site . plans seek to reduce projected cost to $ 500 million , from nearly $ 1 billion , while remaining true to original design . separate commission is formed by gov george_e_pataki and mayor michael_r_bloomberg with same purpose , leading to worries of duplication of work and reflecting suspicions and distrust surrounding project .
 united states government , in rare settlement , agrees to pay $ 87,500 to woman from kenya who was denied entry into us even though she says she expressed fears for her life in kenya . woman , rosebell_n_munyua , was returned to kenya by immigration officials in 2001 even after telling authorities she had been beaten by kenyan authorities for anti-government political activities . she was admitted six months later and granted political asylum in 2002 .
 prof niall_ferguson op-ed article disputes contention that iraq has turned into pres bush 's vietnam . holds that to understand what is going on in iraq , americans need to go back to 1920 , when iraqis revolted against british colonial rule . maintains what bush is trying to do in iraq -- and what is going wrong -- look uncannily familiar to anyone who knows british imperial history .
 jack_meador , texas hardware salesman who became central figure in scheme to sell medieval art treasures stolen from german cathedral in world war ii , died on may 25 at age 83 . meador 's death was followed on july 4 by that of his sister jane_meador cook with whom he had hoped to gain millions of dollars for manuscripts and reliquaries that had once been kept at quedlinburg cathedral , in central germany . cook was 71 .
 eleven days have passed since explosion sealed 65 miners in airless coal shaft in san_juan de las_sabinas , mexico , and mine operators and their american consultants are no closer to finding men . methane gas has filled mine , making it impossible to excavate without risking second explosion and more deaths . federal government declares miners dead because air samples from shaft are found to be lethally poisonous . disaster focuses attention on harsh conditions of mexican miners and provokes national debate on mine safety . it has spawned two days of wildcat strikes at mines across country and struggle for leadership of mexico 's largest mine workers ' union . union 's leader , napoleon_gomez_urrutia , blames mine owners , grupo mexico , for unsafe conditions at mine .
 scientists determine that human fossils found in ethiopia in 1967 are 195,000 years old , 65,000 years older than first thought . say revised date mkes skulls and bones the earlist known remains of modern homo_sapiens . resaerch reinforces theory of african origin for modern humans . findings are described in article in journal nature .
 dana_blake , bouncer at guernica , bar on manhattan 's lower east side , is fatally stabbed during fight that breaks out after he asks two patrons to put out their cigarettes . blake 's brother blames ban on smoking in bars and restaurants that went into effect two weeks ago for death . police arrest two brothers , jonathan and ching chan .
 civil suit questions ownership of preakness stakes winner curlin on eve of his running in belmont stakes . horse was one-fifth owned by william_j_gallion and shirley_a_cunningham , lawyers found to have defrauded 400 plaintiffs in civil suit over injuries caused by diet drug fen-phen . lawyer for plaintiffs contends that gallion and cunningham purchased colt with ill-gotten gains and had no legal right to sell 80 percent of horse for $ 23.5 million , as they did in feb . says her clients own all of curlin . photos . timeline of curlin 's brief and so-far brilliant career .
 article on dispute among three daughters of pulitzer prize-winning author barbara_w_tuchman over 43.4 acres of family property in cos cob , conn . judge david_tobin has split land into two pieces , giving about two-thirds of estate to lucy_eisenberg , retired lawyer who lives in los_angeles , and sister , jessica_mathews , president of carnegie_endowment_for_international_peace in washington , and one-third to daughter alma_tuchman , who will maintain her portion as private estate .
 refco_inc , futures-trading company that went public in august , ousts its chief executive , phillip_r_bennett , after discovering that firm he controls owes company $ 430 million . refco 's shares fall 45 percent , reducing company 's market value by $ 1.65 billion . refco says that bennett has been suspended , although he repaid $ 430 million in cash same day . refco hires forensic accountants to look into matter and will delay its quarterly filing to sec .
 american and iraqi troops fight fierce battle with militants in diwaniya , stronghold of militia members loyal to radical shiite cleric moktada al-sadr . skirmish is third serious clash between american or iraqi soldiers against members of mahdi_army in diwaniya in less than two months . american officials have increased pressure on prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki to rein in armed militias like mahdi_army .
 elan_corp , troubled irish drug maker , says it will seek new buyers for two drugs it agreed in jan to sell to king_pharmaceuticals for $ 850 million if litigation significantly delays deal . elan reports first-quarter loss of $ 130.2 million , down from $ 50 million profit in 2002 period . chief executive g kelly_martin_comments on plans to shed assets , phone interview .
 prosecutors investigating disclosure of name of cia officer reportedly expand probe to whether white_house officials lied or mishandled classified information related to case . broadened scope is what bush allies feared when atty gen john_ashcroft recused himself and turned case over to us atty patrick_j_fitzgerald . valerie_plame is married to joseph_c_wilson iv , who debunked bush claim that iraq sought to buy uranium in africa .
 carol_dodd , daughter of clement_dodd , entrepreneur who brought jamaican music to new_york_city through his stores , coxsone_music_city , is keeping alive his memory and his store , which is in cypress_hills , queens . her father , known as sir coxsone , recently died at age 72 . was founder of studio one record label and , as promoter , is credited with signing many talented singers in 1960 's .
 former rep randy_cunningham is sentenced to eight years and four months in prison for taking $ 2.4 million in bribes from military contractors in return for smoothing way for government contracts . government says sentence is longest ever handed down for member or former member of congress in federal corruption case . judge larry_alan_burns , in recognition of what cunningham 's lawyers have described as his failing health , recommends sending him first to prison medical center .
 new_york_state_commission on judicial conduct seeks removal of kings county surrogate judge , michael_h_feinberg . contends that he appointed neighborhood friend and law school classmate , louis_r_rosenthal , to handle legal matters of people who died without wills and that he then rubber-stamped rosenthal 's fee requests of $ 9 million , including $ 2 million that commission called ` excessive ' .
 popular online advertisements from lowermybills.com , featuring two-stepping cowboys , rooftop dancers and weird tattoos , have been hugely successful for company . led to $ 400 million purchase in 2005 by credit agency experian . spending is at $ 74.6 million in first_11_months_of 2006 . ads rely on old ideas of capturing attention rather than close ties to product . top internet advertisers listed .
 some iraqis say they saw saddam hussein in baghdad 's adhamiya district on april 9 , after us airstrikes targeted him on march 20 and april 7 . believe he may still be somewhere in baghdad , perhaps in adhamiya , which has been stronghold of support for hussein and ruling baath party for decades and where even today crowds gather in streets to praise hussein . other things about shrinking geography of hussein 's baghdad make reports of his appearance in adahamiya more credible .
 financier ronald_o_perelman 's fortunes are looking up after jury awards him $ 604 million from lawsuit against morgan_stanley tied to his investment in sunbeam . revlon , cosmetic company that is his most prominent holding , is also in better shape these days , having reduced its debt sharply over last year , and shares of some of perelman 's lesser-known investments are holding their own . recent developments could mark renaissance for perelman , who after developing reputation as one of most fearsome raiders in 1980 's , suffered embarrassing string of losses .
 analysts say reports that european_union might delay its plan to lift arms embargo imposed after china 's 1989 crackdown on democracy protests sends sobering message to china 's new leaders , underscoring sensitivity of its taiwan policy and continued united_states dominance . european diplomats cite china 's newly adopted antisecession law and intense us opposition to easing curbs on arms sales . some chinese analysts say privately that leadership under hu_jintao might have mishandled law , which threatens military action if taiwan pursues formal independence .
 pres thabo_mbeki of south_africa says his government will pay reparations totaling $ 85 million to more than 19,000 victims of apartheid crimes who testified about their suffering before truth and reconciliation commission . family of each victim will receive about $ 3,900 , which compares with average annual salary in south_africa of about $ 3,000 .
 sen joseph_lieberman gets warm reception and hugs from democratic caucus members just three months after losing connecticut primary and being deserted by longtime allies who endorsed party nominee ned_lamont . newly self-styled independent democrat gets standing ovation as incoming majority leader harry_reid declares ` we 're all family ' . photos . lieberman won re-election without help of democrats like fellow connecticut democrat christopher_dodd . republican susan_collins , his longtime close friend , says it is clear that democats need him now more than he needs them , given slim 51-to-49 majority . mary_landrieu , who did back lieberman , and others acknowledge continuing strains .
 tightest rental housing market in years has pushed manhattan rents up more than 20 percent , nearly three times annual increase of 5 to 7 percent in last_15_years . dividing line between renting and buying is whether down payment and closing costs are affordable but with rents rising so high , monthly costs are now more likely to balance out . brokers recommend that renters who do n't plan on staying in apartment for at least five years or who do n't have down payment may be better off renting , despite record high prices , than stretching to buy .
 brush fires have broken out in new_york_city in numbers and intensity rarely seen . 93 blazes scorched grassland around city from jan 1 through march 15 . there were 16 brush fires during same period last year . recent five-alarm fire raged for four hours in great_kills_park on staten_island , threatening nearby homes . cause of many of fires is not known , but chief suspicion is that they were man-made . officials suspect either serial arsonist or accidental fire starters .
 district council 37 leaders say that they may be willing to accept less generous pension benefits for future workers in exchange for pay raises for present members . bloomberg_administration says creating lower pension tier for all future city workers could save city nearly $ 10 billion over next two decades . hopes all city unions will eventually agree to lower tier . randi_weingarten , chairwoman of municipal labor committee , says that district_council 37 's adoption of plan adamantly opposed by many city unions plan would be death knell to pattern bargaining .
 senate_foreign_relations_committee , which is considering john_r_bolton 's nomination to be ambassador to un , is reviewing at least three incidents involving his actions toward subordinates when he was under secretary of state . current and former intelligence officials say an attempt in 2002 by bolton to remove fulton_t_armstrong from his post as national intelligence officer for latin_america prompted cia deputy dir john_e_mclaughlin to intervene against the request .
 second article about col steven_boltz in series tours of duty , which is revisiting him and other service members periodically . boltz is intelligence officer for v corps and veteran of 27 years in army . describes long , hard hours at tactical operations center in northern kuwait . is optimistic about military campaign in iraq , despite some unanticipated setbacks .
 floyd norris_column on us budget deficits focuses on tax side of budget , which bush administration calculates would cost $ 1.4 trillion from 2006 through 2015 . says one area that deserves attention is estate tax . says law calls for phasing out that tax and then bringing it back . holds estate tax provision costs $ 256 billion . says more could be saved by stopping process of reducing tax every year .
 clyde_haberman , in nyc column , notes that on nov_25_, 1783 , british forces left american_soil . says they sailed out of new_york harbor , abandoning city that was their headquarters during american revolution and clearing way for george_washington 's troops to move in . holds that for many decades , evacuation day was huge deal in city , bigger even than thanksgiving . says evacuation day never caught on as national holiday , but new yorkers celebrated it for long time .
 regulators are wielding new weapon against wall street firms in hope that it might hurt more than multimillion-dollar fines : temporarily shutting down certain business lines . nasd last week prohibited merrill_lynch and wachovia securities from registering brokers for five days on top of fining firms : $ 1.6 million for merrill and $ 650,000 for wachovia . each firm had failed to report to nasd on-time information including customer complaints , regulatory actions and criminal charges and convictions about brokers .
 american administrator l paul_bremer_iii says iraq 's transition to independence could be marred by increased violence , but that he is confident that iraqis can build democracy that values religious and political freedom . under agreement with bush administration , iraq 's political leaders are supposed to create new legislative assembly by next spring and elect provisional government by july 1 . elected body to write constitution would then follow , with national elections possible by 2006 . before that , by mar_15 , iraq and united_states are supposed to draw up status of forces agreement on future relationship between independent iraq and american military .
 penthouse apartments are selling faster than ever before in wake of new_york_city 's record wall street bonus season . average prices for penthouses in manhattan rose 16.6 percent to $ 2.3 million in 2006 from 2005 . units have become redefined , with some penthouses built even five or six floors from roof . some buyers reject notion that penthouses are trophy purchase , saying that in new buildings they simply offer most room , largest terraces and high degree of privacy .
 britain has one of worst rates of hospital-acquired mrsa -lrb- methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus -rrb- bloodstream infections in europe , second only to greece , and problem is getting worse . national audit office says there has been 8 percent increase in number of staph infections in bloodstream , to 19,311 in 2004 from 17,933 in 2001 . says 40 percent were resistant to antibiotic methicillin . says infections result in at least 5,000 deaths a year .
 rep jose e serrano considers cutting ties to casa_cultural_puertorriquena , bronx cultural group he helped found in 2001 . group has received $ 1.1 million in federal grants intended to create institution to archive and showcase history and contributions of puerto ricans in city , but it has yet to find home for its museum and operates out of storefront . its board is led by francisco_lugovina , bronx democrat and godfather to serrano 's son . noemi_santana , lugovina 's fiancee , is executive director and received $ 82,515 salary in 2002 . david_rosado , district leader and serrano campaign aide , received $ 36,000 in consulting fees . group spent $ 351,013 on legal fees and feasibility studies in 2002 for fred daris action theater as well as on casa_cultural . serrano now says that he chose wrong people .
 united nations emergency relief coordinator , jan_egeland , in new_york to brief security council , says relief crises in africa are outpacing efforts to contain them , interview . holds international community fails to focus on africa , site of world 's most pressing needs . says eight of 14 un fund appeals for africa attracted less than 20 percent of requested amounts .
 united states forces are fighting for control of husayba , important crossing point between iraq and syria , almost six months after official end of hostilities in iraq . police chief was gunned down last week , dealing severe setback to american plan to turn over authority to iraqis . also last week , 20 armed men took over police station for more than seven hours and warned that anyone who collaborates with americans would be killed . lt col greg_reilly says there is organized group of resisters in husayba .
 michael_jordan , widely considered best basketball player of all time , plays last game with washington_wizards , promising final retirement at 40 years old after 15 seasons in nba . philadelphia 76ers defeat wizards , 107-87 . jordan finishes with 15 points , 4 rebounds and 4 assists . receives multiple minutes-long ovations from supportive and emotional philadelphia -lrb- pa -rrb- crowd .
 cactus rescue crew fans out on emergency missions to save saguaro cactus and other sonora desert plants endangered by booming development in tucson area . volunteers organized six years ago by tucson cactus and succulent society have rescued more than 27,000 native plants , selling most to fund other projects . tucson and pima_county bar destruction of protected species .
 toxic impatience with democratic process across latin_america has resulted in lynching of one mayor , ousting of six elected heads of state in face of violent unrest and polls showing majority of latin americans would choose dictator over elected leader if provided economic benefits . analysts trace discontent to corruption and widespread feeling that elected governments have done little or nothing to help 220 million people in region , 43 percent of population , who still live in poverty . at-risk governments stretch thousands of miles from caribbean and central_america through spine of andes to continent 's southern zone . increasingly , problems associated with weak governments are spilling beyond latin_america and affecting united_states interests in region . among weakest states is guatemala , followed by haiti and bolivia . venezuela remains deeply polarized . even in argentina , once latin_america 's most developed country , pres nestor_kirchner has warned of threats against his government and his life as he struggles to root out corruption , repair democratic instititutions and improve economy .
 defense and prosecution in perjury trial of former white_house aide lewis libby make final summations . prosecutors led by patrick_fitzgerald review charge that libby willfully lied to fbi agents and grand jury investigating leak of identity of cia agent valerie_plame in effort to discredit her husband joseph_wilson , who debunked story that iraq had tried to buy uranium in niger . theodore wells argues tearfully that any inaccuracies were innocent memory lapses explained by libby 's pressing schedule as vice pres cheney 's chief of staff . fitzgerald says disclosure left cloud over white_house and cheney because he was behind effort and that libby decided to lie rather than risk being prosecuted for leaking agent 's name . wells disparages newsman tim_russert 's credibility in saying he did not reveal name to libby because he did not know it until he read robert_novak 's column on july 14_, 2003 .
 four democratic presidential candidates strongly criticize pres bush 's economic policies in speeches at winter meeting of democratic_national_committee , but they clash over us policy toward iraq , with former gov howard_dean and former sen carol_moseley-braun opposing war and sen joseph_i_lieberman and rep richard a gephardt supporting it . dean and gephardt draw warmest receptions by far .
 china announces complex transfer of $ 45 billion from its soaring foreign exchange reserves to two of four big government-owned banks , third large bailout in banking system in less than six years . transaction is intended to help shore up bank of china and china_construction_bank so they can sell stock for first time . central bank admonishes commercial banks to do better job of controlling fraud and limiting bad loans .
 freed filipino hostage angelo dela_cruz was welcomed home from iraq as hero . over seven million filipinos work overseas , and they send home billions of dollars . when dela_cruz was kidnapped , his captors , whether they realized it or not , were striking at heart of philippine economy . pressure on pres gloria_macapagal_arroyo to bring dela_cruz home alive was overpowering . she agreed to withdraw contingent of 51 filipino soldiers from iraq one month ahead of schedule .
 advertising accounts of five mexican beers are being reassigned after reviews to four agencies , shift that underscores growing importance to brewers of hispanic market and of brands with roots in spanish-speaking nations . reassignments are result of accord between femsa_cerveza_unit_of_mexican_brewer_fomento_economico_mexicano_-lrb-_femsa -rrb- and american unit of dutch brewer heineken under which heineken_usa will take over sales , distribution and marketing of brands , bohemia , carta_blanca , dos_equis , sol and tecate , from inbev , formerly interbrew .
 general motors and shell announce they will be opening service station with hydrogen pump in washington , dc . critics say experimental hydrogen cars will be on washington streets mainly to impress congress so that auto industry gets more subsidies and feels less pressure to improve fuel efficiency of current cars . six experimental minivans that are scheduled to arrive in washington in may have cost more than $ 1 million each .
 supreme court strikes down washington state 's sentencing law and requires that any factor that increases sentence be proved to jury beyond reasonable doubt . decision may affect laws in seven other states . justice sandra day o'connor dissents , citing havoc decision will wreak on trial courts , which will have to review 270,000 cases in federal system alone . state cases may add another 90,000 . case was brought by ralph_blakely , who was given 90 months rather than 53 months for kidnapping estranged wife because judge felt he acted with ` deliberate cruelty ' .
 north hunterdon-voorhees regional high school district in new jersey is surveying residents , holding talks with community groups and planning open forums to lay groundwork for bond issue scheduled to be voted on in 2008 . last year , only 60 percent of 52 bond proposals were approved statewide , compared with 73 percent of 26 bond issues passed so far this year .
 wall street journal on jan 2 will shrink in width by 3 inches , to industry standard of 12 inches , reducing space devoted to news by 10 percent . move alarms most journalists at paper , but executives say it will save millions of dollars and that reconfigured journal will offer more information , not less . l gordon_crovitz , publisher of journal and executive vice president of dow_jones , which owns journal , says changes are intended to help time-pressed reader move faster .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column hails bush administration diplomacy that led to accord to end sudan 's civil war . deplores world 's failure to press sudan to halt genocide in its darfur region , which is unaffected by new peace accords . holds many of darfur people displaced within sudan are in settlements like concentration camps . blames deliberate effort to eliminate three african tribes in darfur so arabs can take their land .
 review of nassau_county , ny , budget data shows county ended 2003 with unspent balance of almost $ 51 million in fringe benefits budgeted for police department after pressing police officers for contract givebacks . money is in untouched $ 38 million contingency fund , new budget item added by county_exec_thomas_r_suozzi , and $ 13 million surplus in budget lines for fringe benefits . police union holds money should have been used to hire badly needed new officers .
 new_york_city homeowners are receiving $ 400 tax rebate , second of three annual payments , intended to soften 18.5 percent tax increase introduced by bloomberg_administration in 2004 . recent new_york_times study shows that owners of single family homes have seen their taxes rise 62 percent since 2001 and individual co-op and condominiums 43 percent , essentially making rebate far less generous move by city than it appears .
 italian prosecutors seek indictments of 29 people and bank_of_america , deloitte_&_touche and grant_thompson for their role in multibillion-dollar collapse of parmalat . more indictments are expected . list of people prosecutors want to indict includes parmalat 's founder calisto_tanzi and former chief financial officers fausto_tonna , luciano_del_soldato and alberto_ferraris .
 senate 's $ 2.57 trillion budget resolution gives pres bush much of what he asked for , but on some key votes , enough republicans join democrats to defy the president . senate , in blow to bush , strips from budget $ 14 billion in proposed spending cuts in medicaid and adds $ 5.4 billion in education spending for 2006 .
 boeing_co 's chief executive harry c stonecipher cast long shadow over farnborough international air show in london despite his absence . stonecipher 's plans to intensify trade battle between boeing and its main rival airbus is talk of show . has said he plans to ` raise the rhetoric ' about subsidies airbus receives from european governments . airbus has asserted that boeing receives subsidies from state of washington , where its main production operations are situated , as well as indirect aid from pentagon , through research and military contracts . also said boeing derives additional aid from japan , which will make components for boeing 's new 7e7 jetliner .
 richard_sandomir tv sports column contends that fox announcers tim_mccarver and joe_buck missed golden opportunity to question new_york yankees manager joe_torre 's decision to use pitcher jeff_weaver in game 4 in spite of weaver 's awful season . notes that florida_marlins took advantage of weaver and went on to 4-3 win .
 news corp will incorporate in us , where it earns about 75 percent of its revenue and profit . hopes move , which includes shifting its primary stock listing to new_york_stock_exchange from australian_exchange , will lure wider investor base and give it access to lower-cost capital . analysts say company is also seeking to close gap between price of its 940 million nonvoting shares and its 525 million voting shares . chairman-chief executive rupert_murdoch comments .
 anemona hartocollis coping column on bell-tolling vigil by small band of parishioners outside st_ignatius_of_antioch_episcopal_church on manhattan 's upper_west side against scheduled execution of convicted texas murderer bruce_jacobs and convicted florida murderer newton_slawson . church rector rev gaylord_hitchcock says such vigils occur whenever executions are scheduled .
 capture of saddam hussein seen sweet victory for both pres bush and his father , former pres george h w bush , who expected iraq 's humiliating defeat in 1991 persian gulf war to lead to hussein 's ouster . second pres bush , despite his efforts to keep from personalizing family feud with hussein , has often seemed determined to do things differently from his father .
 profile of new_york_city deputy mayor marc_shaw , who is second most powerful person in city government . mayor bloomberg_gives_shaw a 16 percent raise in recognition of shaw 's contributions to city government , making shaw , who will now earn $ 194,999 , highest paid official in city hall . bloomberg , a billionaire , draws salary of $ 1 . shaw photo .
 pres george_bush reportedly plans to meet with british prime min tony_blair and spanish prime min jose_maria_aznar in azores to determine if there is last-ditch way to sway united_nations to pressure iraq pres saddam hussein to disarm . meeting seems aimed at showing three leaders ' willingness to explore all alternatives before bush authorizes military action . white_house rejects latest proposal put forward by chile_asking_un_security_council for three more weeks for hussein government to meet tests of his willingness to relinquish weapons of mass destruction .
 william_safire op-ed column imagines what pres bush and prime min tony_blair are likely to say at their belfast meeting . says blair will want united_nations to have pre-eminent role in post-saddam iraq , and bush will object . says blair will voice fear that us and britain will be seen as hated occupiers unless government of iraqis is in place quickly , and bush will object to provisional government and prefer to start with iraqi advisers .
 bridgeport_&_port_jefferson_steamboat_co vice president and general manager frederick_hall says talks are planned over adding ferry service across long_island sound between new haven , conn , and port_jefferson , ny . port jefferson mayor jeanne_garant and others worry that ferry fleet , which now stands at three , may grow , causing congestion in town 's narrow streets .
 article on how rupert_murdoch turned britain 's b sky b satellite-television from company in 1989 with modest four-channel network and less than one million subscribers into television empire with more than 6.6 million subscribers and 200 channels . says company 's strategy broadened beyond sports with 1998 introduction of digital_technology and numerous channels .
 identities of london suicide bombing suspects emerge in their leeds neighborhoods behind thicket of disbelief at how they came to commit heinous crime against country where they were raised by immigrant pakistani families . photos . shahzad tanweer , 22 , was college-educated cricket fanatic whose father ran successful fish-and-chips shop . hasib_hussain , 18 , was reckless teenager who became religious in pakistan . mohamed sadique_khan , 30 , was teacher with wife and child . three worked out at same mosque .
 secretary of state_colin_l_powell will tour devastated parts of asia to assess need for further aid programs . he will be accompanied by gov jeb_bush of florida . decision to send powell and jeb_bush , pres bush 's brother , is seen by administration officials as likely to help defuse whatever hurt feelings there might be in asia that president was slow to respond , at least compared with how quickly many other nations reacted to 9/11 attacks in america .
 new research into narwhal 's tusk discovers that whale 's tooth , which can grow as long as nine feet , is acute sensory organ . dr martin_t_nweeia , harvard_university_school_of_dental_medicine clinical instructor , leads study presented at 16th biennial conference on biology of marine mammals . estimates around 10 million nerve endings tunnel from tusk 's core to outer surface . history of tusk , which was once passed off as unicorn 's horn , discussed . tusk had been thought to be used socially or in mating rituals and may still have use outside sensing environment .
 freddy_lugo , venezuelan , was sentenced to 20 years in prison for placing explosives on jetliner flown by cubana_airlines in 1976 . plane blew up in sky above barbados , killing 73 people on board . he was released in 1993 after 17 years in prison , and has tried to put past behind him -- but past has way of catching up with him . new book on cubana bombing , called , terrorist of the bush family , by venezuelan journalists , alexis_rosas and ernesto_villegas , has not helped either . lugo photo .
 a o scott discusses ` overall mediocrity ' of entries at 2003 cannes_international_film_festival . reports calls for ouster of gilles_jacob , president of board of directors or of thierry_fremaux , artistic head of festival . much criticism is directed at over-representation of poor french films . critic roger_ebert calls brown bunny worst film ever to compete at cannes . vincent_gallo , producer , writer , director and star of brown bunny , first apologizes for film , then strikes back at critics . scott says two bright spots of tediou s event were denys_arcand 's barbarian invasions and clint_eastwood 's mystic_river . frustrated critics plan to attend venice_festival in hopes of finding better products .
 three months into adminisration of prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki , inflation rate has reached 70 percent a year , up from 32 percent last year . wages are flat , banks are barely functioning and consensus among many american and iraq officials is that inflation is likely to accelerate . violence , corruption and fallout from decades of government control are driving up price of nearly everything , especially fuel , which in turn multiplies production cost for goods .
 los_angeles mayor antonio r villaraigosa and william_j_bratton , its police chief , say deputy chief cayler carter jr will be demoted and transferred after violent confrontation between demonstrators and officers at immigration rally in macarthur_park on may 1 . carter was highest ranking police official present when officers , in response to group of agitators trying to provoke them , fired 148 rubber bullets and used other forceful tactics to break up rally . several spectators , journalists and officers were injured .
 article on iraqi-american amir_elsaffar , jazz and classical trumpeter who has returned to new_york after traveling in europe for two and half years studying with exiled iraqi_masters_of_maqam , music genre that has been played for centuries in baghdad . elsaffar has formed ensemble , taught others to play maqam with him and is performing at alwan for the arts center .
 republican peter_fitzgerald says he will not run for re-election to senate from illinois in 2004 . spent $ 13 million of own money in 1998 to win seat . says he is unwilling to devote needed time to campaign . calls state overwhelmingly democratic , hinting at challenge ahead for republicans struggling to keep seat . some half-dozen republicans have begun scrambling for support , but many expect bush administration to hand-pick candidate .
 areas of country where divorce rates are highest are also frequently areas where many conservative christians live . kentucky , mississippi and arkansas voted overwhelmingly for constitutional amendments to ban gay marriage , but they had three of highest divorce rates in 2003 , based on figures from census_bureau and national_center_for_health_statistics . lowest divorce rates were in northeast and upper_midwest . state with lowest divorce rate was massachusetts .
 article on debate over authenticity of productions of works by george_balanchine during international festival of ballet in havana , cuba . only one of seven pieces performed is currently licensed by george_balanchine_foundation . two have expired licenses and rest were copied from videotapes . nine dancers from new_york_city ballet and one from dance theater of harlem were barred from attending .
 investigation into deadly fire at nightclub in west_warwick , ri , now focuses on michael and jeffrey_derderian , brothers who own club , and away from great white , band whose sparklers ignited blaze . atty gen patrick_lynch says derderians have not been forthcoming . michael_derderian , entrepreneur , and jeffrey , who is also well-known local television reporter , began operating nightclub , station , in early 2000 .
 toyota motor says profits nearly doubled in last_quarter_of 2002 and announces it will build new assembly plant in san_antonio , tex , at cost of $ 800 million to challenge big three automakers in areas where they traditionally dominate . expects to produce 150,000 tundra pickup trucks per year when plant opens in 2006 . company earned better-than-expected 216 billion yen -lrb- $ 1.8 billion -rrb- in october-to-december period , 94 percent improvement from period last year . sales grew 13.2 percent .
 growing number of food makers are developing new products for evening meal that are mix of adult-pleasing convenience and child-pleasing shock value . ragu , division of unilever 's best foods , recently released ragu_express , line of pasta dishes in single-serve , containers that children can prepare in microwave . conagra has updated kid cuisine . robert_rothschild farm has new line of jellies for dinner rolls and eastern_foods line of neon-colored salad dressings aimed at children . mintel consumer intelligence says children help influence from $ 43 billion to $ 50 billion of $ 133 billion that is spent each year on food and beverages for them .
 new hampshire episcopalians elect v gene_robinson as their leader and first openly gay bishop anywhere in worldwide anglican community . photos . action is likely to roil church in us and england and deepen disaffection of conservative anglicans on other continents . robinson wins majority among clergy and laity in balloting in concord and embraces two grown daughters and his partner . acknowledges that election may precipitate outrage but hopes rift can be healed . election forces showdown in us church because robinson can not be ordained until he wins consent of bishops and other dioceses at general convention in july . robinson , 56 , says he came out as gay in 1986 and divorced wife .
 singapore government , overruling public opposition in effort to increase tourism , decides to legalize casinos to allow construction of two las vegas-style resorts -- theme park_island off southern_coast and one near city 's main convention center . harrah 's is bidding to build both sites as part of joint venture with government-controlled company keppel . other bidders include kerzner international , wynn resorts and tabcorp_holdings . country 's business leaders praise move .
 american cellular phone carriers have spent $ 100 billion to upgrade networks to accomodate third-generation products and services . high prices and complicated hardware have kept consumers from upgrading . may take years for companies like sprint , verizon_wireless , cingular and t-mobile to see returns on investments . fewer than five million 3g phones are in use with less than two million connected to 3g data plans as consumers still regard devices as phones .
 article on revitalization of downtown new haven , conn . gov john_rowland has announced state commitment to $ 230 million development project , which will demolish veterans memorial coliseum , grant $ 30 million to long wharf theater to relocate from warehouse district to downtown , $ 150 million to move gateway community college downtown and include hotel and conference center , retail shops and 280 residential units .
 consortium of international oil companies agrees to proceed with $ 29 billion development of kashagan oil field in kazakhstan . will not extract oil from site until 2008,_three_years_later than originally planned . total oil reserves are estimated to be 13 billion barrels , several billion higher than original estimate . consortium is led by eni and includes royal dutch / shell , exxon_mobil , total of france , conocophillips and inpex of japan .
 long island journal column : more than 80 local preachers , mostly black and more than half women , buy airtime on wthe in mineola , only gospel radio station on long_island , to convey their messages . debbie_cirruzzo , owner of la_carezza salon and day spa in southampton , holds barbie doll hair styling competition among her staff . proceeds from sale and raffle bring $ 1,700 donation to local homeless family .
 clyde_haberman column on new_york post erroneous headline pronouncing that sen john_kerry selected rep richard_a_gephardt as his running mate on democratic presidential ticket . says even if post had declared sen john_edwards to be kerry 's choice , a so-called ` exclusive ' annouced two or three minutes before information is released at press conference does not constitute a scoop .
 sen kerry tries to shore up his macho bona fides among rural voters by going hunting for geese in ohio , but national_rifle_assn continues its opposition to his candidacy . vice pres cheney points to kerry 's poor rating from nra . kerry appears later with dana_reeve , widow of christopher_reeve , who endorsed him because of his support for embryonic stem-cell research . kerry paints bush as favoring ideology over science .
 sen john_kerry returns to iowa , where democrats catapulted him to presidential nomination , in search of votes . promises , on fourth trip to state in month , to hold rural summit in first 100 days of his administration . columnist david_yepsen says urban senator may overcome ` culture ' problem with turn-out operation he developed in primary season . kerry rally in cedar rapids is led by singer jon_bon_jovi .
 canadian prime min paul_martin squeaks out election victory in which his liberal party wins only 36.7 percent of vote and loses majority_control_of_house_of_commons . liberals will have 135 house seats , most of any party . martin pledges to shake up his government and improve performance . says he will not include members of other parties in his cabinet . separatist bloc quebecois is biggest winner of election , winning 54 of quebec 's 75 seats .
 insurgents in iraq blow up northern oil export pipeline , dealing severe blow to national economy . car bombs and gun battles across country leave at least 12 iraqis dead . sabotage shuts down pipeline that pumps out 400,000 barrels a day to port in turkey . new videotape reported in which kidnappers threaten to turn over hostage margaret_hassan to abu_musab_al-zarqawi_terrorist_group . insurgents drive car bomb up to education ministry in baghdad , killing at least six people and wounding dozens more . photo . others killed in mosul bombings . marines continue intense urban fighting in ramadi . reuters freelance cameraman dhia_najim is killed during battle .
 denver is hit with second major snowstorm in two weeks , but everyone from city officials to holiday travelers finds coping with latest one incrementally easier . denver_international_airport was closed for nearly 48 hours and thousands of people were stranded during first blizzard . airport stayed open during second storm , but airlines canceled hundreds of flights in advance and offered passengers later flights .
 wellington_management_co , one of nation 's oldest and most respected money management firms and adviser to more than dozen funds offered by vanguard_group , is under investigation by officials at securities_and_exchange_commission . investigation suggests that mutual fund scandal may not only be expanding , but may also be threatening to touch vanguard , nation 's second-largest fund company and one of most trusted names in mutual funds . wellington spokeswoman lisa_d_finkel says firm does not believe probe has to do with market timing and late trading .
 hundreds of people line up for open auditions to perform in boston pop 's annual fourth of july concert . 14 judges will winnow down initial audition group to 15 to 20 singers , who will perform at outdoor concert on june 9 . nine semifinalists will perform at three pops concerts and advance to june 29 concert , where winner will be chosen .
 powerful suicide car bomb rips through throng of men waiting outside army recruiting station in baghdad , killing at least 35 iraqis and wounding at least 138 . photos . second car bomb at city council building in village north of capital kills six iraqi security officers and wounds four others . iraqi officials says they are ready to crack down hard on insurgency after june 30 us handover .
 unitedhealth_group and humana have captured nearly half of vast new market for prescription drug insurance under medicare , according to data issued by bush administration . over 80 companies are offering more than 1,400 prescription drug plans around country , and 13.9 million enrollees are participating in plans . unitedhealth , humana and wellpoint account for 52 percent of enrollment .
 comptroller william_c_thompson jr says new_york_city could lose $ 4 billion of $ 21 billion federal aid promised to help recover from sept 11 attacks . urges federal and state agencies to hasten funds ' distribution and revise aid programming , extending deadline for financing , which is now dec 31 , 2004 -lrb- m .
 military hearing in tikrit ends in case of four us soldiers charged with killing three iraqis in custody . lt col james p daniel jr must determine whether to recommend that charges proceed to court-martial . soldiers are staff sgt raymond_l_girouard , specialist william_b_hunsaker , pfc_corey_r_clagett and specialist juston_r_graber .
 pres bush opens his general election drive by visiting swing states pennsylvania , wisconsin and iowa , beginning one hour after labor dept releases figures showing that economy generated 144,000 jobs in august . figure is below projections but high enough to be huge relief to bush campaign . despite year-long string of monthly employment increases , economy has still lost nearly one million jobs since bush took office .
 nielsen_soundscan , whose tracking of cd sales is foundation of influential billboard top 200 album chart , does not receive reports of sales that are made through many of new , nontraditional music outlets , such as hallmark card stores , starbucks , walt disney theme park gift shops , burlington coat factories and pbs stations . conservative estimate of how many sales go unreported is in millions annually , small fraction of 650 million albums sold in 2002 . niesen_soundscan , which tracks 90 percent of retail music sales and uses proprietary formulas to extrapolate remaining 10 percent , is exploring other retail markets for coverage .
 federal jury finds bankrupt first alliance_corp defrauded over 7,500 homeowners who got high-cost home equity loans from it and that lehman_brothers knowingly assisted in fraud by providing financial backing to company despite warnings about its questionable business practices . awards plaintiffs $ 50.9 million in damages . holds lehman responsible for 10 percent of amount , company , its founder , brian_chisick , and other company executives and directors liable for 85 percent of damages and mbia_inc , which insured some of mortgage-backed securities , liable for 5 percent .
 sen ernest_f_hollings , 81-year-old legend of south_carolina politics and hawk on washington deficits , says he will not seek re-election next year , ending more than half-century in politics and leaving democrats with gaping vacancy in solidly republican state . democrats expect inez_tenenbaum , state superintendent of education , to run . other possible candidates include mayor bob_coble . four republicans already in race are former atty gen charlie_condon , rep jim_demint , mayor mark_mcbride and thomas_ravenel .
 cordiant communications group shareholders unhappily approve buyout of struggling agency group by wpp_group . score board and oust chief executive david_hearn , chairman nigel_stapleton and chief financial officer andrew_boland from board . rare move is largely symbolic since wpp will take control in aug . hearn and boland will stay on as executives during transition , while stapleton will resign and forgo $ 321,000 in pay .
 medicare premiums will rise to $ 66 a month in 2004 , up 12.4 percent , and doctors ' fees will probably be cut 4.2 percent , because medicare spending surged unexpectedly in 2002 . cut in doctors ' fees is remarkable because pres bush has just signed legislation to increase medicare spending for doctors ' services by $ 54 billion over 10 years . medicare spent $ 45 billion on doctors ' services in 2002 , up 7 percent from 2001 .
 sen john_kerry courts teamsters , one of unions most skeptical about his presidential candidacy , in address in las_vegas . teamsters president james_p_hoffa tells kerry he can win over union 's members if he picks rep richard_a_gephardt as his running mate . kerry praises gephardt four times during his speech to teamsters , mindful that gephardt was union 's first pick . kerry has won endorsement from union , but he is still seeking members ' hearts .
 team of former federal judges and prosecutors is going to supreme_court to block texas from executing delma banks jr , whose lawyers argue that banks , a black man , received ineffective counsel in his trial 23 years ago for killing of white teenager and that prosecutors blocked eligible blacks from jury pool , suppressed evidence , secretly paid one of two most incriminating witnesses and let others lie . banks would be 300th person executed in texas since 1976 .
 news analysis of daunting and painstaking task facing investigators probing breakup of space shuttle columbia in earth 's atmosphere on february 2 killing all seven astronauts on board . what triggered catastrophe may not be known for long time since much of debris may never be found and since spacecraft was doomed by problems not nearly as discernible as those that caused challenger disaster in 1986 .
 sen lisa_murkowski , republican named by her father alaska gov frank_murkowski to finish his united_states_senate term , will seek election in own right next year and seeks to set tone by offering ` fresh face . ` other alaska politicians gear up to challenge her , including ex-gov tony_knowles , democrat . democrats nationally see alaska as one of their two best chances to pick up republican senate seat in 2004 . murkowski will likely face primary challenge , although republican establishment seeks to discourage serious opposition that could weaken its grip on seat .
 gunmen dressed in iraqi police commando uniforms and driving vehicles with interior_ministry_markings_kidnap_dozens_of_people_from_ministry_of_higher_education in downtown baghdad in one of most brazen kidnappings in iraq 's sectarian conflict . photos . us military puts number at 55 . witnesses say up to 50 gunmen stormed compound , herded workers outside , loaded men into more than 30 trucks and drove away through heavy morning traffic toward shiite area . some or most are reported released or freed in security operations later in day . several police commanders in karada area are reported arrested . prime min nuri al-maliki orders security sweeps and appears to implicate moktada al-sadr ` s mahdi_army . captives are from wide cross-section of religous and cultural groups . more than 150 educators have been killed and thousands more have fled iraq . car bomb elsewhere in city kills ten people .
 times of london rates stony_brook_university on long_island 50th in north_america in its survey of world institutions . it ranks 136th in world and 33rd in research impact worldwide . is part of state_university_of_new_york , with tuition that is about one-eighth that of many prestigious schools it ranked above in report . is co-manager of brookhaven_national_laboratory , which supplies school with world-class researchers and more royalties than harvard received in 2004 . is expanding its facilities and offering creative programs to entice better students .
 invasion of the locusts , poison-pen memoir by werner_seifert about his 2005 ouster as chief executive of deutsche_borse , is generating buzz in london , home to many hedge fund managers . book 's vitriole is aimed chiefly at christopher_hohn , briton whom seifert says led opposition to his unsolicited and unsuccessful $ 2.5 billion takeover bid for london_stock_exchange .
 joseph_i_lieberman , in his battle for re-election to us_senate without backing of democratic party , is deploying secret weapon in race 's closing days : sophisticated operation to identify and turn out voters , courtesy of mayor_michael_r_bloomberg . bloomberg group includes korinne_kubena , ariel_dvorkin and brian_honan , top-level operatives who played key roles in mayor 's decisive re-election in 2005 or who are in his administration . efforts of bloomberg team could prove critical in one of most closely watched races in nation .
 michael_sokolove article on question of whether john_hinckley should be allowed to leave st_elizabeths_hospital in washington , where he has been held since being found not guilty by reason of insanity in shooting of pres ronald_reagan and his press secretary , james_brady , in 1981 . hearing is set to begin on whether hinckley should be permitted series of visits off hospital grounds with his parents without hospital staff . his doctors say psychosis and major depression he suffered from when admitted are in full remission and have been since 1985 . government opposes even day outings , fearing incremental steps may lead ultimately to hinckley 's full freedom .
 race for 35th senate district in westchester_county continues to be too close to call three weeks after election . republican state sen nicholas a spano faced tough challenge from andrea_stewart-cousins , democratic county legislator , and he has maintained slim lead through counting of thousands of paper ballots . both sides agree that spano is ahead by 188 votes , with hundreds of ballots still to be counted .
 borders books and music is tapping into one of retail industry 's few remaining new frontiers -- underserved urban neighborhoods -- with stores in detroit and chicago . company opened 8,000-square - foot store in heart of downtown detroit at compuware_corp 's new world headquarters building . company is also main retail anchor for ambitious new mixed-use retail and residential complex on north side of chicago . alex_lelli , vice president for development at borders , comments .
 survey finds eight percent increase in number of new foreign students coming to united_states this school year , afer several years of weakness following 9/11 attacks . figures released by institute_of_international_education . another sign of turnaround is sharp upturn in student visas . catharine r stimpson_of_new_york_university says school sent graduate_school official outside us for recruiting for first time in her tenure . india continues to send most students to us and china remains second .
 pentagon is reviewing whether to reopen inquiry into case of four iraqis , employees of western news organizations who say they were abused at american base in iraq . their complaint had been dismissed by pentagon months before abu_ghraib abuses were first reported . their case involves reports of practices similar to those carried out at abu ghraib . it could provide evidence that maltreatment of prisoners occurred elsewhere in iraq .
 frenzied merger activity in last_week could propel four regional telecommunications companies , sbc , qwest , verizon and bellsouth , into level of direct competition they have worked deftly to avoid . analysts say sbc and qwest could use at & t and mci networks as entrees into new parts of nation , forcing verizon and bellsouth to fight back .
 marsh_&_mclennan companies ' managing director joshua_bewlay and american_international_group manager john_mohs and underwriter carlos_coello plead guilty to criminal charges of rigging bids for corporate insurance policies . six other executives , including one from marsh and two from aig , earlier pleaded guilty amid investigation of insurance industry by new_york_state_atty_gen_eliot_spitzer . all nine are cooperating with investigators , who say they already have leads implicating several dozen executives at marsh and several major insurance companies .
 at&_t_wireless ' decision to sell company could threaten turnaround made by equipment companies such as lucent_technologies , motorola , nortel networks and nokia . sale would at minimum delay investment of hundreds of millions of dollars in equipment , although in long run it may lead to larger investments by heightening competition within industry . potential buyers include cingular_wireless , nextel_communications , ntt_docomo and vodafone group .
 citizens and officials of tiny lake_annette , mo , population 163 , can not decide who is in charge of town . george_pruitt defeated incumbent mayor eric_atchley in apr 8 municipal election , 59 to 38 , but allies of atchley have filed lawsuit claiming election fraud and demanding recall . county says lake_annette is too small to qualify for recall election . atchley-pruitt feud dates back dozen years , to arguments over pruit-owned house that was rented by atchleys .
 sergeant jose_gomez of new_york_city is killed by roadside bomb in baghdad . gomez was on second tour of duty , this time as reserve officer , and had chosen not to tell his mother , maria_gomez of corona , queens , that he was in iraq again . sergeant 's fiancee analaura esparza-gutierrez , army private , died in roadside bombing in tikrit in 2003 .
 state attorney general 's office reaches $ 6.2 million settlement with 31 chemical companies to clean up more than 600 drums and 27 tanks of potentially lethal chemicals at bronx facilities where hexagon laboratories made pharmaceuticals until it went bankrupt in 1989 . companies were involved in hexagon 's business or its chemical operations . cleanup will cost total of $ 9 million .
 michael_scheuer , senior counterterrorism official at cia , contends bush administration has failed to recognize that al_qaeda is now global islamic insurgency rather than traditional terrorist organization and poses different kind of threat , interview . notes that pres bush and other officials repeatedly refer to having killed or captured two-thirds of leaderhip , but says figure is misleading because it is referring to leaders who were in place as of sept 11 , 2001 . concedes that organization has suffered . cia disputes scheuer 's assertions and says it never made misleading claims about al_qaeda 's leadership .
 kirksville , mo , anarchists chris_scheets , ben_garrett and daniel_coate plan to demonstrate in new_york_city during republican national convention . they are at center of debate on security at major political events and maintaining civil rights , as fbi mounts extensive effort to identify and question people who it suspects may be planning acts of violence at political demonstrations .
 sens john_kerry and john_edwards charge that slipshod intelligence invoked by pres bush to invade iraq has cost lives , billions of dollars and international prestige , joint interview after release of senate_intelligence_committee report challenging prewar intelligence . say bush policies have probably increased prospects of domestic terrorist attacks and that discrediting of much of bush 's case for going to war has fed cynicism toward government . excerpts from interview . kerry and edwards offer no ideas about ending war beyond enlisting help of allies and united_nations . bush campaign operatives reject assertions .
 wildlife specialists release seven elephants into limpopo_national_park , 135-square-mile enclave in mozambique which will be incorporated inside world 's largest wildlife park , great_limpopo_transfrontier_park , linking park in mozambique with zimbabwe 's scenic_gonarezhou_national_park and south_africa 's kruger_national_park . park is expected to cover 13,500 square miles . it is being financed with total of $ 42 million from germany , south_africa , united_states and world bank . goal is to attract tourists .
 relatives of mamadou_soumare gather at family compound in bamako , mali , to mourn five members of immigrant family that died in march 7 blaze in bronx . shock is heightened because families like soumare 's were considered among most fortunate for managing to get to america . soumare lost his wife and three of his children in initial fire . his oldest daughter died on march 9th .
 havaianas sandals , which cost about $ 3 in brazil where they are manfactured , are fashion 's flavor of month in us , with prices as high as $ 160 for customized pair . distribution is being restricted to up-market chains and more prestigious surf stores on west_coast . importer david_sengstaken has sold 100,000 pairs since sandals ' introduction on west_coast six month ago and sengstaken predicts millions will be sold . angela_hirato , export director at sao_paulo_alpargatas , which makes colorful thongs , comments .
 pres hamid_karzai is declared winner of majority of votes in afganistan 's oct 9 election , effectively securing his position as country 's first popularly elected president . victory is not landslide karzai and his western backers hoped for . he finds overwhelming approval among his fellow ethnic pashtuns in south and east , but makes poor showing in much of north , where voters tended to vote according to their ethnic group .
 peter_jennings , longtime anchor of abc 's world news tonight , hopes to reclaim ratings lead he lost seven years ago when tom_brokaw yields his top-rated nbc_nightly news to brian_williams . abc_news has launched marketing campaign toward that end , and jennings has taken to road to interview voters and candidates and meet advertisers . abc affiliates in markets where jennings has run second to brokaw anxiously anticipate halo effect that could extend to their local news programming should he claim top spot .
 op-ed article by manhattan_institute_empire_center for new_york state policy director e j mcmahon on pork-barrel ` member items ' vetoed from budget by new_york gov george_pataki . calls on senate majority leader joseph_bruno and minority leader david_patterson to work toward release of details of member items from secret memos before they are voted on .
 american forces launch new airstrikes against insurgents in falluja and tighten their grip on roads surrounding najaf , where rebel_shiite_cleric_moktada_al-sadr has sought refuge . american military seems to be getting help in najaf from shadowy vigilante group known as thulfikar_army , group which may have been behind recent deaths of sadr supporters . on political front , some members of iraqi governing council criticize plan developed by united_nations and bush administration to form interim government after june 30 that will have only limited authority . as june 30 draws near , administration is struggling to cobble together stable country that can endure until general elections next year .
 editorial notes that republican majority in house and senate passed budget blueprints for 2006 that slash domestic spending by $ 150 billion over next five years , but still increase projected deficit by over $ 125 billion . criticizes republicans for cutting revenue by giving huge tax cuts to high earners and wealthy investors . says lawmakers have to agree on official budget later in year , but early signs are all bad -- pointing to least sensible tax cuts for least needy recipients with no thought to exploding deficit .
 federal authorities are investigating allegations that region 's leading private ferry company , new_york waterway , defrauded federal government of hundreds of thousands of dollars in aftermath of sept 11 attack . are looking into whether ferry company submitted inflated bills to port authority of new_york and new jersey for ferry services it provided to replace commuter rail link between new jersey and lower manhattan that was destroyed by terror attack . new_york waterway receives about $ 1.74 million a month in subsidies .
 30-year-old comedian marc_horowitz is focus of nissan ad campaign , budgeted at between $ 40 million to $ 50 million , that shows him spending seven days in sentra . campaign is emblematic of growing efforts by marketers to remake their media choices to reflect changing behavior of younger consumers . omd , part of omnicom group , is overseeing media aspects of campaign , working with sibling shops like tbwa / chiat / day , nissan creative agency . other agencies not owned by omnicom that are involved include edelman and vidal partnership .
 jesselyn_radack , lawyer who worked in justice_dept 's professional responsibility advisory office , is at center of debate over prosecutorial ethics . at issue is legal guidance she provided on possible interrogation of john_walker_lindh , american who was captured in afghanistan after joining with taliban . her advice that lindh not be questioned without defense lawyer was ignored . justice dept says her e-mail messages were given to court during legal proceedings against lindh , but radack says they were not and that she was pressured to resign from justice_dept . supporters portray her as whistle-blower . matter is complicating nomination of michael_chertoff , leading justice_dept official , to united_states court of appeals . chertoff has defended justice_dept 's right to interrogate lindh without lawyer .
 daniel_kane assumes duties as acting chief executive of nassau_health_care_corp , taking charge of agency that in recent years has had hundreds of layoffs , soaring deficits , staff friction and investigation by new_york_state_'s_ethics_commission . will make $ 325,000 a year , $ 300,000 less than he made at his last post at englewood_hospital in new jersey .
 new_york_city deputy chancellor carmen_farino says fixing problems with special education will be priority , acknowledging that mayor michael_bloomberg 's overhaul of schools has led to difficult transition . photo at brooklyn_school . thousands of such children await evaluations or therapy . 43.7 percent of school psychologists tell public advocate betsy_gotbaum they were given direct order to limit referrals and evaluations .
 article on singer aaron_neville , who comments on his devotion to st jude . neville , whose two most recent cd 's have been nominated for grammy awards , comments on his obligation to our lady of guadalupe_chapel / shrine of st_jude in new_orleans , where he sings at midnight mass on christmas eve . rev m jeffery_bayhi of st_agnes_roman_catholic_church in baton_rouge , comments on his friendship and musical collaboration with neville .
 pakistani military bombs three compounds , including one that foreign militants used as terrorist training camp , in tribal areas of northwest pakistan . maj gen shaukut sultan says as many as 50 people -- 15 soldiers and 35 militants -- died in fighting in south_waziristan tribal area . hundreds of foreign militants , including osama_bin_laden , are believed to be hiding there .
 clyde_haberman nyc column on new_orleans , la , mayor c ray_nagin 's backpedaling from calling world trade center site in new_york_city ` hole in the ground ' in trying to defend lack of progress in rebuilding new_orleans since hurricane katrina . concludes nagin 's main point that , after five years , hole in ground still exists , is true .
 group of avalon , nj , residents plan to take michael_rice , chief executive of utz_snacks , to court to stop plan to build 14,881-square - foot summer house on dunes . in rumson , nj , citibank executive pete_dawkins and his wife , judith , are at odds over plan by neighbor michael_gooch , chief executive of gfi_group , and wife , diane , to demolish pool house and build caretaker 's house .
 banco santander central hispano of spain will acquire british mortgage banker abbey national for 8.5 billion pounds -lrb- $ 15.6 billion -rrb- , largest cross-border banking deal ever attempted in europe . abbey national will bring santander stable foothold in britain if deal goes through . banco santander chairman emilio_botin and abbey_national 's chief executive luqman arnold comment .
 ranch that belonged to colombia 's infamous cocaine king pablo_escobar , who died 10 years ago , is home to herd of hippos , descendants of two he brought there during his heyday , in 1980 's . hacienda_napoles , site of ranch , is hot and sticky , with lush vegetation and plenty of water . james_doherty of bronx zoo cautions that wild hippos in africa kill more people than any other animal . says it is only matter of time before hippos in colombia outgrow ranch . government of colombia has not decided what to do with property .
 rita_bender , widow of one of three civil rights workers slain in philadelphia , miss , in 1964 , is first witness in state murder trial of edgar_ray_killen , onetime member of ku klux klan accused of orchestrating killings . bender , who accompanied her husband michael_schwerner to mississippi to help blacks register to vote , offers close-up view of time when terror was commonplace and mere act of helping people could endanger them . her husband , and james_earl_chaney and andrew_goodman , disappeared , and their bodies were found months later . case recalled . trial is halted for day when killen , now 80 , complains of chest pains and is taken to hospital .
 steven m theede , longtime conocophillips executive who has been yukos 's chief since june , says he ` fully intends ' to return to moscow in december to run company . says russia 's treatment of company -- which is in midst of political and financial scandal -- will send message that western investment in russia is riskier than is widely believed . governemnt says yukos owes it $ 24 billion in back taxes .
 oscar de la_renta , one of world 's best-known couturiers , will introduce moderately priced line of women 's clothes -- with rhinestone-buttoned silk tops , embroidered sweaters and broacade jackets -- designed for midlevel stores like macy 's west , belk and dillard_'s . his day suits sell for more than $ 3,000 , but pieces in this newest line will sell for less than $ 100 .
 rachel_k_paulose has drawn criticism since her swearing-in ceremony in march as us attorney in minneapolis . her top deputies , john_marti , erika_r_mozangue and james_e_lackner , have stepped down from their leadership positions and returned to their prosecutorial jobs . several of their associates describe action as protest over paulose 's ideologically driven and dictatorial managerial style . she is first person of south asian descent to be confirmed as us attorney .
 john rockwell reverberations column on strindberg and helium , series of four miniature animated films viewable on internet conceived by erin_bradley and james_bewley , two members of san_francisco comedy troupe called killing my lobster , and animated by eun-ha_paek . describes why he sees internet as both blessing and curse . cartoon .
 county exec thomas_r_suozzi 's efforts to revive nassau 's long-troubled finances win coveted upgrade in county 's bond rating , reversing about a decade of downgrades . upgrade by moody_'s_investors_service is just in time for suozzi to highlight it in his second state of county messsage since he took office year ago .
 dispute between groupe_danone and wahaha_group 's chairman zong_qinghou has escalated into battle for control of country 's largest beverage maker . fight started in 2005 , when executives at danone say they noticed something peculiar in financial figures coming from their joint venture in china with wahaha . danone discovered that zong was operating series of secret companies outside joint venture , companies that were mimicking joint venture and siphoning off millions of dollars . danone has filed lawsuit in california against company controlled by zong 's relatives . analysts say wahaha dispute is reminder of pitfalls that foreign companies face when doing business in china . case detailed .
 defense dept records show that almost half of more than $ 19 million in compensation that us military allocated last year to compensate for killing or injuring iraqis and damaging property came from marine-led units in anbar_province . figures do not include $ 38,000 paid to relatives of 15 iraqis killed by marines at haditha in nov , because those deaths occurred after end of 2005 fiscal year on sept 30 .
 growing number of democrats say that if howard_dean can not win washington state caucuses on feb 7 , he should bow out of race even before wisconsin primary feb 17 . seattle is where dean began to build his base more than year ago . political consultants say persistently loyal base there for dean gives him chance of making showing , although there is growing support for sen john_kerry , including endorsements from gov gary_locke and six of state 's eight democratic congressional delegates .
 rev al sharpton settles suit against new_york_city in which he claims police failed to protect him from stabbing during 1991 protest in bensonhurst , brooklyn . was preparing to march in demonstration protesting neighborhood gang murder of yusef k hawkins when michael_riccardi stabbed him in chest . will receive $ 200,000 , and city will relieve him of $ 7,447.76 bill for his hospitalization after incident .
 woman in the news profile of rep nancy_pelosi , who is poised to become first female speaker of house of representatives . as speaker , she would be second in line to presidency -- closest a woman in elective office has come to white_house . she has been san_francisco congresswoman for 20 years . she is 66 years old .
 trucking executives and drivers speculate about whether one of their own may have used bioterrorism to publicize opposition to new driving-time limits . two letters containing ricin claimed to be from fleet owner calling himself ` fallen angel ' . one was mailed last oct to transportation_department , second in november to mail center serving white_house .
 senate_finance_committee votes unanimously to treat as american all companies that made bermuda or any other tax haven their tax headquarters after march 20_, 2002 . house_transportation and infrastructure committee rejects language that would have allowed nabors_industries to continue operating 33 ships servicing offshore oil rigs and platforms under temporary exemption to jones act , 1920 national security law .
 sec of state_colin_l_powell , in shuneh , jordan , addresses members of arab world 's business and political elite at meeting of world economic forum . promises that justice will be done in matter of prisoner abuses at iraq 's abu_ghraib_prison . renews commitments to progress in middle_east peace efforts and to working with united_nations in establishing new_independent_iraqi_administration . asks arabs not to lose sight of good work of americans in rebuilding iraq . receives polite applause .
 baseball notebook discusses baltimore orioles infielder miguel_tejada , who wins home run derby with record 27 home runs . major league baseball celebrates 14 living baseball players who have hit 500 or more home runs . cincinnati reds shortstop barry_larkin suggests center fielder ken_griffey jr move to left or right to keep his legs healthier .
 on stage and off column : o'neill playwrights conference artistic director james_houghton comments on decision , unpopular among playwrights , to eliminate open submissions process in favor of nominations . newly appointed classic stage company artistic director brian_kulick comments on decision to stage lesser known plays , first of which will be marlowe 's jew of malta featuring ron_liebman . director anthony page comments on elia_kazan 's version of tennessee_williams play cat on a hot tin roof , which he is staging for broadway .
 travel article offers opinions of four top editors in music press on where they would go to experience most exciting music scenes right now . new musical express news editor julian_marshall would go to glasgow , rolling stone associate editor austin_scaggs would go to tokyo , pitchforkmedia.com managing editor scott_plagenhoef favors cologne , germany , and blender magazine music editor rob_tannenbaum would go to new_york .
 palestinian militants destroy israeli armored vehicle in gaza_strip , killing five soldiers and confronting troops who storm after their fallen comrades . israeli helicopter then fires missile at palestinians army says were trying to attack troops on recovery mission in rafah refugee camp . seven palestinians are killed . other israeli forces in northern_gaza_scour_gaza_city neighborhood for remains of six soldiers killed in similar incident day earlier .
 boy who has accused michael_jackson of sexually molesting him testifies for first time , santa_maria_court . says that jackson coached him two years ago to say that he had been cured of cancer as result of jackson 's kindness . says jackson told him to be complimentary about him as they were preparing to be interviewed for documentary that explored jackson 's apparent fondness for young boys .
 article on fierce campaign that is taking place over election for board_of_liberal_new_york_city_radio_station_wbai-fm . election , slated for early next year , will be first since shakeup known as christmas coup traumatized station three years ago . 71 candidates are vying for seats on new 24-member board , made up of 18 listeners and 6 staff members .
 new_york genealogical and biographical society is selling its building at 122 east 58th street to new_york synagogue , forcing move of 15 small ancestry-themed clubs that are housed there . clubs will move to headquarters of general society of mechanics and tradesmen of the city of new_york at 20 west 44th street but genealogical and biographical society itself has not yet found new location .
 bush administration has negotiated with china to secure some new agreements to unlock chinese markets for american goods . china has told us that it plans new purchases of $ 30 billion . whether steps will satisfy congress irate over trade deficit with china that soared to $ 232 billion last year is unclear . us treas sec henry m paulson jr says some people wil look at situation and say it is not enough progress . sen charles_e_schumer and house speaker nancy_pelosi , critics of china 's policy , denounce steps . rep charles_b_rangel says democrats should be careful to speak honestly with chinese without damaging chinese-american relations .
 pres mahmoud ahmadinejad of iran , meeting in new_york at united_nations , says his country would present new proposals to try to break impasse over iran 's nuclear programs , but he provides no details . meets with secretary general kofi_annan and foreign ministers of britain , france , germany and european_union and promises to make details public in upcoming speech to general assembly .
 china 's bid for unocal is part of drive to secure fuel it needs to keep its economy in overdrive . some in congress are advising that bid be rejected by united_states on national security grounds . this could motivate china to build more ties to rogue states and step up its courtship of major oil producers in africa and latin_america that in past have looked mainly to us market . pres hu_jintao has traveled to latin_america , southeast_asia and africa on missions focused largely on securing energy supplies that will not pass through american or european companies before reaching china . he will soon make his third trip to russia as president to continue lobbying campaign for pipeline to ferry siberian crude to china 's northeastern oil hub , daqing . china 's relations with outside world are being transformed by energy needs , generating fears that it will compete with us for resources .
 china 's central bank , amid signs that economy might be growing at unsustainable pace as property prices soar , raises mortgage interest rates . minimum rate for housing loans of five years or more will rise to 5.51 percent . bank will be encouraged to require down payments equal to 30 percent of purchase price , rather than 20 percent , in cities that have experienced especially rapid appreciation .
 two bombs go off in formerly upscale baghdad neighborhood of mansour , killing 13 people and wounding 22 others . method of attack -- multiple bombs timed to explode in succession -- is seen as trademark of al_qaeda in mesopotamia , sunni insurgent group . elsewhere , mortar attack is directed at shiite neighborhood , wounding three people . in baghdad , trucks full of bodies are being collected every day .
 dr gail_thomson of manchester , england , is working for world_health_organization in luanda , angola , teaching doctors how to avoid becoming infected when taking care of patients with deadly marburg virus . virus has been fatal in 193 out of 218 known cases . at least a dozen of victims have been health-care workers , including italian pediatrician .
 lawmakers are divided over bush administration proposal to open two-million-acre area 181 off pensacola , fla , to oil and gas drilling . senate_energy_committee is pushing for wider drilling zone , while florida_senate and house delegations are arguing for smaller tract . drilling in offshore zone could lead to further development in outer continental shelf . area has been off-limits since 1980 's , though states are challenging moratorium .
 article on successful marketing techniques by disney , scholastic and other publishers used to sell children 's fiction . focuses on peter and the starcatchers , first of three-part prequel to j m barrie 's classic peter pan written by dave_barry and ridley_pearson . book has climbed to number 3 on new_york times best-seller list for children 's chapter books , with half million copies in print . publishers and authors comment .
 alan b krueger_economic_scene_column_on_united_nations ' goal of cutting poverty in half by 2015 , compared with 1990 , as world_bank monitors situation and experts wonder how to measure or define poverty . says un currently considers person living on less than $ 1 a day to be living in extreme poverty , if poverty line were raised to $ 2 a day , number of those living in extreme poverty more than doubles .
 aaron_m_feuerstein , polartec inventor who became corporate folk hero for treatment of workers after disastrous 1995 fire , is rebuffed in effort to buy back malden mills from current board and ge_capital , which became largest shareholder after he was forced into bankruptcy . feuerstein , now 78 , would keep 1,000 jobs in merrimac_valley_of_mass and provide low-cost local housing . photo . he has two years left on option to buy back company his grandfather founded in 1906 , and malden has not performed well under turnaround team , deepening mystery of offer 's rejection .
 article on creative localism in new jersey which , despite its small size , has 566 municipalities , vestige of state 's independent character . notes there are 30 incorporated towns in state with fewer than 1,000 residents and four with fewer than 50 residents . tavistock has 24 people , making it state 's smallest town , beating out teterboro by 7 .
 chris_broussard inside the nba_column_discusses_denver_nuggets player carmelo_anthony , who is averaging 17.4 points over eight preseason games . orlando magic player tracy_mcgrady is playing at full capacity after year of back problems , but will never fully recover from back injury . chicago bulls coach bill_cartwright has high hopes for guards jamal_crawford and kirk_hinrich .
 gen wesley_k_clark declares victory in oklahoma primary . vows to carry his campaign for democratic presidential nomination to tennessee , another southern showdown with sen john_edwards . oklahoma win and second-place finishes behind sen john_kerry in arizona , new mexico and north_dakoa give clark what aides say is legitimacy he needs to continue campaign .
 politically willed solidarity of germany and france , europe 's two largest nations , has been basis for evolution of european_union . but while french-german integration may have worked on institutional level , it has scarcely entered hearts of two countries ' citizens . german reunification created behemoth at center of europe , third larger than france . this made french officials uneasy about losing influence . france and germany are finding that their priorities are not those of other european states .
 pres bush enlists his two predecessors in white_house , george h w bush and bill_clinton , to lead effort to raise money from individuals , corporations and foundations in united_states to augment $ 350 million in government funds pledged so far for disaster relief in nations devastated by indian ocean tsunami . officials say elder bush and clinton would travel around country to encourage giving by wide array of donors .
 stock market posts best quarterly performance since end of 1998 , producing most encouraging rally since long slide began in 2000 . 14.9 percent climb in standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index was eighth-best performance since world war ii . 470 of 500 stocks rose , as did all ten industry sectors , bringing back many retail investors despite skepticism of others .
 dr wendy_sandler , university_of_haifa_researcher , leads study on al sayyid bedouin sign language , which was developed by isolated village in israel 's negev_desert 70 years ago . asserts that language developed spontaneously and autonomously . community , which is descended from single founder who had two deaf sons , has around 150 deaf persons within total population of 3,500 . offers opportunity for linguists to better understand evolution of language .
 michael_c_skakel 's former lawyer , mickey_sherman , tells court he was not given information until after 2002 murder trial that might have spared skakel from being convicted of 1975 killing of martha_moxley in greenwich , conn . says he learned name of former classmate of skakel 's , gitano_bryant , who has since furnished evidence pointing to other possible culprits , one month after conviction .
 deneen_peterkin is charged with kidnapping , child endangerment and other crimes after abducting 5-year-old daughter egypt lewis during supervised visit at st_vincent 's services in new_york_city . abduction occurred when caseworker davina_perez_left_peterkin and lewis alone . search ends when peterkin returned lewis to agency . administration for children 's services , which has contract with st_vincent 's , begins investigation .
 colorado for years has been leanest state in nation but obesity rate rose to nearly 17 percent of adult population in 2002 and has more than doubled over last_decade . only 10 states did worse in 2002 in holding down or reducing number of severely overweight residents . state is seeking to counteract trend with fitness programs . former stapleton_international_airport on denver 's east side is being renovated as planned community promoting active life-style .
 national_transportation_safety_board , which is investigating crash of corporate jet at teterboro_airport in new jersey on feb 2 , says that its findings indicate no braking system was in effect until plane was 5,000 feet along 6,013-foot runway . says liftoff normally takes place around 3,000 feet . acting gov richard j codey and rep steven_rothman will petition federal_aviation_administration to adopt further restrictions on number and types of flights from teterboro .
 article on adirondack theater festival , which is celebrating its 10th season and first year in permanent home , converted woolworth 's store in heart of glens falls , ny . elaine_stritch has brought her show , elaine_stritch at liberty , to theater . while much of upstate_new_york is burdened with poor economy , theater is helping to revitalize glens falls .
 profile of mullah_krekar , who founded radical islamist group ansar_al-islam in northeastern iraq in december 2001 . krekar , a kurd , was arrested in iran and deported to europe in may 2002 . shadowy group , which he said had about 600 members when he was there , drew international attention after united_states singled it out in period just before war in iraq as link between al_qaeda and saddam_hussein . he is now living in oslo , norway .
 air traffic control becomes flashpoint of bush administration effort to contract out hundreds of thousands of federal jobs , as congress votes to bar further privatization after vigorous lobbying by controllers ' and pilots ' unions . adminstration threatens veto , having reversed pres cinton 's decision that air traffic control function is inherently governmental . more than 200 mostly smaller airports already have ` contract towers ' . faa chief marion_blakey seeks to contract out jobs of about 2,000 faa workers at 61 flight service stations .
 article on plan by assembly minority leader paul_digaetano , senate co-president john_bennett and state_committee chairman joseph_kyrillos to revitalize new jersey 's weakened republican party . first salvo is attack on gov james_mcgreevey , whose popularity has been slipping . republicans remain at odds over what dominant strategy should be , how it should be undertaken and who should deliver it .
 parallels and contrasts between april 29 attack on three hispanic teens in east_hampton , ny , by 15-year-old boy and vicious attack five years ago on two mexican day laborers near farmingville explored . police say perpetrators in both cases were self-proclaimed neo-nazi skinheads . advocates for latinos on long_island say that while latest episode did not result in injuries , it showed that fermenting racial and ethnic tensions on south fork are starting to boil over . about 700 people attend public meeting , drawn both by latest episode and rumors that accused boy 's friends are planning violent revenge for his arrest .
 fourth article in series 2004 : presidential prospects profiles repr richard_gephardt . photo . biographical information . seasoned democratic lawmaker raises impressive sums of money and has developed nationwide network of grassroots loyalists from his years of tireless campaigning for house colleagues , which may give him more staying power than he had when he ran in 1988 . gephardt stepped down as house democratic leader after party setbacks last year , and says democrats must offer clear alternative to white_house proposals .
 summer always starts same way on fire island . new yorkers begin filtering in on april 15 , venturing into houses that have been abandoned for winter . island by may is poised for arrival of about 25,000 summer visitors , who disperse to its 17 communities each weekend . for 400 people who live there year-round -- and especially for plumbers , contractors and real estate agents -- it is month of deadlines .
 episcopal church faces ruptures over question of consecration of openly gay man as bishop . three churches have voted to secede from los_angeles_diocese and align themselves with anglican church of uganda . other congregations have aligned themselves with dioceses in bolivia and kenya . ten of 38 provinces of anglican communion , mainly in africa , asia and latin_america , have restricted ties with episcopal_church in america . archbishop of canterbury_rowan_williams has appointed commission to make recommendations to address problem .
 pres bush presses united_nations_sec gen kofi_annan at white_house meeting to have his aides mediate among quarreling factions in iraq and forge consensus behind plan that would allow transfer of sovereignty to iraqi government by june 30 . bush aides say bush , without rapid progress on political issues , might agree to delay self-rule as last resort . bush offers annan dozen transfer options , ranging from holding direct elections before june 30 to radically overhauling unwieldy caucus system that is supposed to choose new national assembly . annan , after meeting , says un team heading soon to iraq to assess possibility of direct elections will expand its agenda . says un has chance to help break impasse .
 anemona hartocollis coping column on allassane coulibaly , 19 , from the ivory coast , who has been living with his family in harlem for past two years and who recently graduated third in his class from martin_luther_king_jr_high_school . coulibaly , who took unpaid job last summer at st_lukes_'s_hospital and participated in college-prep program , has been accepted at dickinson_college in carlisle , pa , on full scholarship .
 south_america , led by brazil , has had explosion of farm exports over past decade . growth is fueled by combination of market-friendly economic policies and advances in agronomy that have brought formerly unusable tropical lands into production and increased productivety levels beyond those in united_states and europe , challenging their traditional dominance of global farm trade . in addition to brazil , trend is being felt in parts of argentina , bolivia , paraguay and uruguay .
 sbc communications emerges as only major internet service provider that has so far refused to identify computer users whom music industry suspects of copyright infringement . major high-speed internet providers , including bellsouth , comcast , earthlink , time_warner cable and verizon , have compiled more than 1,000 subpoenas from record_industry_association_of_america to turn over names of their customers who are otherwise known only by murky screen names and numeric internet protocol addresses used in cyberspace . sbc has received about 300 such subpoenas and has refused to answer them .
 article on research into tidal electric generation that is being conducted off shelter island by richard_greeley , 76 , financed by new_york_state_energy_research and development authority and long_island power authority . two homemade turbines , each size of bathtub , are lowered into position in shelter island sound and generate enough electricity to make 125-watt light bulb glow . greeley says all of suffolk_county could be powered with 35,000 to 50,000 turbines at bottom of plum gut . photos .
 verizon_communications introduces phone booth as its newest weapon in competition to dominate broadband communications market in future . verizon says subscribers to its high-speed internet access service will be able to go online wirelessly at no charge when they are near verizon phone booth in manhattan . verizon says 150 phone booths have already been equipped with radio-signal technology , popularly known as wi-fi , to enable mobile computer users who are within 300 feet of booth to connect to internet . about 1,000 booths covering virtually all of manhattan and few spots in other boroughs will become wi-fi ` hot spots ' by end of year .
 new_york has three hungarian-language newspapers . julia_hajnal and her husband laszlo_kovacs started new_york_express after they clashed with istvan_peterman , publisher of magyar szo , in 2004 . new_york_express is bilingual . julius_kalnoky is owner of amerikai_magyar_nepszava-szabadsag , which is 115 years old and sells 4,000 to 6,000 copies week . it is only newspaper of group with national presence .
 clyde_haberman column on plaques enscribed with names and messages that have been placed on benches in central park under central park conservancy 's adopt-a-bench program . conservancy promises to maintain bench and plaque in perpetuity for one-time payment of $ 7,500 . roughly 1,500 of park 's 9,000 benches have been ` adopted ' since program was introduced in 1986 . program brings in roughly $ 1 million a year .
 sbc_communications , with its core local phone business in decline , enters serious negotiations to acquire directv satellite television operation of general_motors in deal that could be worth more than $ 10 billion . sbc 's interest in directv , nation 's no . 2 pay television provider , after comcast , sets sbc in direct competition with news_corp , controlled by rupert_murdoch .
 william and patricia_burke say they will be able to stay on their farm in lowville , ny , after they retire thanks to lease payments they will receive on seven wind turbines that are part of maple ridge wind farm . wind farm , partnership of goldman_sachs 's horizon wind energy and ppm energy , has 120 turbines and will have 195 when complete , for total cost estimated between $ 450 million and $ 550 million . will be able to generate 320 megawatts of electricity , equivalent of midsize power plant .
 pres bush names james a baker iii as personal envoy to restructure more than $ 100 billion in iraq 's foreign debt . appointment is public admission that occupation and reconstruction of iraq is more urgent problem than officials have acknowledged . baker will also serve as unofficial ambassador to explain administration 's plans for iraq to skeptical nations in europe and middle_east . officials say appointment was made at request_of_iraqi_governing_council . appointment is raising some questions as baker 's role seems to usurp some responsibilities of treasury_sec john snow and sec_of_state_colin_powell .
 bush administration proposes legislation that would reduce payments to farmers by $ 10 billion over next five years and cut off support for wealthy ones entirely . measure is described by some critics of current policy as most reform-minded farm bill in decades . proposal to cut off payments to farmers earning more than $ 200,000 a year is already rankling some farm groups .
 greenbelt , md , is undergoing major improvements but longtime residents city is allowing haphazard development of some of its land , with plans that will double number of homes in city without addressing existing problems that will be exacerbated by influx of residents . one project meeting residents ' approval is greenbelt station , $ 2 billion , 2,200-home development inspired by community-focused design of old greenbelt . greenbelt_community_foundation will provide grants of $ 500 to $ 2,500 for local non-profit groups working to improve city in line with ` old greenbelt 's utopian values ' .
 dow jones shareholders will hear good news about company for first time in years at company 's annual meeting on april 21 . advertising linage has grown for three consecutive quarters after declines in previous 11 , thanks to nascent recovery in financial advertising and increasing consumer advertising at flagship wall street journal . representatives of restive_union plan to be on hand to complain about their protracted and heated labor dispute with company .
 aides to mayor_michael_r_bloomberg and members of pres george w bush re-election campaign confirm that he and campaign fought over bloomberg 's speech on opening day of national republican convention in new_york , with bloomberg threatening for a time to give no speech at all if he were forced to drop criticism of republican-led congress for failing to deliver on post-9 / 11 security aid . bloomberg ultimately gave speech , omitting reference to congress .
 gov james e mcgreevey plans to make new_jersey first state_to_finance_research on human embyronic stem cells . will budget $ 6.5 million for research_institute in new_brunswick to be run by rutgers_university and university_of_medicine and dentistry of new jeresy . plan calls for public and private funds for institute to total $ 50 million over five years . issue is expected to cause debate because of religious and ethical questions raised by such research .
 pres bush visits pennsylvania and michigan on campaign-style swing that highlights his ability to raise money and his vulnerability on sluggish economy . emphasis in visit to big industrial states is on his efforts to combat joblessness and his latest tax cut . raises $ 2 million , bringing war chest in about month of raising money to more than $ 45 million .
 one of six young men under arrest in arson that caused $ 10 million in damages to new housing subdivision , has told investigators that leader of southern maryland gang orchestrated attack to add to gang 's notoriety . michael e gilbert implicates patrick_s_walsh of gang called family or unseen cavaliers . gilbert photo . ten more people are sought in widening probe of fire that destroyed ten houses and damaged 16 in hunters brooke . most of buyers are black .
 stamford , conn , is virtual showcase of work of most prominent names in real estate development world , but lesser-known entity , antares_investment_partners , is stepping up with bold $ 2.5 billion mixed-use plan for city 's south end . project , harbor point , will develop 82 acres of former industrial area , creating five distinct neighborhoods set around parks and waterfront promenades . mixed-use plan includes 4,000 residential units , 10 percent of which will be affordable housing . project is one of number of antares ventures , some of which have proved spectacularly successful , and by far its largest undertaking to date .
 plan to build casino on easter_island has created uproar among island 's 3,800 residents . they say plan is latest in centuries-old onslaught of intrusions that have eroded local polynesian culture . are irked that final decision will be taken in santiago , chile , nearly 2,500 miles away . easter island has been part of chile since 1888 .
 northern virginia commuters to washington -lrb- dc -rrb- and big office sites in nearby arlington , rosslyn and crystal city have blended hitchhiking and carpooling into quick , efficient way to outmaneuver traffic-choked freeway . in this form of commuting , called slugging , solo drivers pick up strangers so they can cruise to work legally in high-occupancy-vehicle lanes , traveling at 60 and 70 miles an hour and passing drivers crawling in regular lanes .
 it took two and half days for russia 's security service to announce what virtually everyone else believed from moment two domestic passenger airlines plunged to earth simultaneously on aug 24 . russia had suffered another blow from terrorists . critics say secrecy has been hallmark of vladimir_v_putin 's presidency . accuse putin of exploiting terrorist attacks for political reasons , whether to whip up public support for conflict in chechnya or to hand greater power to security agencies .
 john_tierney political points column notes group of 700 well-informed people in political science experiment chose sen john_edwards as strongest candidate to oppose pres george w bush . notes new biography of sen john_kerry , presumptive democratic nominee , mentions 1965 debate between kerry and bush in yale locker room , but topic of debate is unclear . notes poll-takers find voters get incensed over tax increases but do not get correspondingly excited about tax cuts .
 editorial observer by nicholas_kulish , croatian-american , notes that european_union refused to begin membership negotiations with croatia in march because it failed to arrest gen ante gotovina , who was indicted by international criminal tribunal for former yugoslavia . says croatia should not allow hypernationalism to jeopardize its needed entry into eu by denying that croats did take part in ethnic killings in 1990 's . welcomes news that eu membership talks were reopened when croatia pledged to cooperate fully in search for gotovina .
 european newspapers , including some that support american military campaign in iraq , are largely critical of pres bush 's address to united_nations , accusing him of being unrealistic about worsening situation in iraq . britain 's financial times says sen_john_kerry is beginning to speak more realistically than bush about deterioration of security in iraq .
 pres bush , who ran four years ago on platform of meaty domestic policy ideas , has offered little in way of major new proposals this year , falling back on existing bills he has been trying to push through congress and smaller-bore ideas . analyst james_thurber notes that bush and democrat john_kerry are both ` all over the place ' on strategy -lrb- white houe memo -rrb- .
 gwadar , pakistan , city of mostly poor fishermen , is set to emerge as strategic deepwater port , transformation spurred by interest of newly independent landlocked central asian republics in warm-water port and china 's active role . china is paying $ 198 million of port 's estimated costs through loans and grants . pakistan is spending $ 50 million . development has also brought complications , helping fuel unrest in baluchistan_province . port will help southwestern pakistan .
 lt gen david_h_petraeus , charged with rebuilding_iraqi_security_force that collapsed during apr uprising , discussed how america 's forces might one day extract selves from iraq . cites importance of giving iraqis stake in success of new iraq to defeat insurgency . faces daunting task in getting iraqi soldiers to fight iraqis .
 at least five books are in works about case of louis j eppolito and stephen_caracappa , retired new_york_city police detectives accused of roles in at least eight mob murders . william_oldham , investigator with us attorney 's office who is writing one of books , arrives at federal court in brooklyn carrying book mouthpiece , by caracappa 's lawyer edward_hayes .
 muhammad al-danai , sunni member of iraqi_parliament , is in washington advocating withdrawl of american troops . says what brought terrorism , what brought al_qaeda and what brought iranian influence to iraq is america . his contention that prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki ` s government has ties to shiite militias and iran is widely accepted and has caused concern to american officials . visit is sponsored by businessman dal_lamagna , who is devoting his fortune to seeking an end to violence in iraq .
 denver -lrb- colorado -rrb- , following several years of drought , has invested more than $ 1 million in cloud seeding over past two years . principle of cloud seeding , which originated in 1940 's , is increasing precipitation , not changing weather patterns . national research council 's recent report on success of cloud seeding is inconclusive . report holds that there is some statistical evidence that seeding generates more precipitation , but directly attributing increase to seeding remains uncertain . resorts , communities and states are becoming more attuned to idea that cloud seeding can be component in water management . vail resort -lrb- colorado -rrb- has used western weather consultants for 28 years and chief operating officer bill_jensen holds total snowfall has increased 15 to 18 percent as result of seeding technology .
 congress votes to spend $ 79 billion on war in iraq and related needs for foreign aid and domestic security . senate vote is unanimous . house vote is 414 to 12 . package includes $ 1 billion in aid to turkey . house bill includes provision excluding france , germany , russia and syria from federal contracts to reconstruct iraq .
 pres bush says he will create terrorist threat integration center to merge units at cia , fbi and other agencies into single government unit intended to strength en collection and analysis of foreign and domestic terror threats . center will b e led by cia chief , george_j_tenet . cia will for first time have full control ov er collection and evaluation of all information relating to terrorist threats in united_states or overseas . bush makes announcement in his state of union addres s .
 gen david_h_petraeus formally takes command of american troops in iraq , succeeding gen george_w_casey_jr , who will become army 's chief of staff . casey had pushed for speedy transfer of control to iraqi forces so american troops could withdraw , but petraeus is expert in counterinsurgency and supports more active american role . american military officers consider petraeus imaginative leader with deep understanding of iraq 's problems from two tours of duty there .
 democrats hope for substantial election gains in republican-controlled ohio because of mounting voter displeasure over economy , war in iraq and republican corruption scandal . seats in five of ohio 's 18 congressional districts are in play . democratic campaign to unseat sen mike_dewine is pivotal to party 's ambition of recapturing senate , but hopes have been dampened by barrage of republican attacks on challenger rep sherrod_brown 's positions on taxes , military appropriations and social issues .
 officials of eads , parent company of airbus , are wooing alabama officials at paris air show to win $ 40 billion contract to provide 179 aerial refueling tankers to us_air_force . eads has cast its lot with alabama politicians , as well as politicians in nearby mississippi and florida . alabama gov bob_riley says he wants eads to be treated fairly and hopes tanker decision is based on merit . boeing officials have been meeting regularly with members of congress and their staff members , and proclaiming that their tanker work , if they win contract , would be spread over 40 states . alabama is backing eads .
 four soldiers from new york-based army_national_guard division are killed , and five soldiers and american military contractor are wounded when insurgents attack patrol with roadside bomb near baiji , in northern iraq . american command discloses that marine was killed day earlier by small arms fire while on patrol near habbaniya , predominantly sunni town west of falluja , in anbar_province , redoubt for insurgency .
 sen tom_daschle , rep nancy_pelosi and most of house democratic caucus demand that pres bush press hard for quick enactment of child tax credit for 6.5 millon minimum-wage families that did not receive it in tax cut law enacted in may . republican officials say decision on credits will have to wait for weeks , if not longer , citing urgency of medicare legislation .
 gypsy moths , whose numbers had been dwindling in much of northeast for several years , have made resurgence and are wreaking havoc on trees , particularly in new jersey . state_department_of_agriculture reports pests have infested 125,473 acres of forest , nearly triple acreage defoliated in state in 2005 and well above 6,502 acres infested in 2004 .
 authorities in washington , dc , area say as many as 22 fires may have been set by same arsonist outside homes in prince george 's county , maryland , and neighborhoods in eastern_washington . fires have killed elderly woman , injured seven other people and caused tens of thousands of dollars in damages . photos . map . blazes are set at night , around porches and doorways , as residents sleep . composite sketch is issued of possible suspect , black man in his 30 's . neighbors mourn lou_edna_jones , 86 , who died in june 5 fire at home in northeast_washington .
 pres bush greets other leaders attending group of 8 summit meeting . gives warm embrace to those who supported his position on war in iraq , while pres jacques_chirac of france , who opposed it , gets businesslike handshake . even group of 8 lineup of four against four adds to tension : us , britain , italy and japan supported war , while france , germany , russia and canada did not .
 unlicensed street vendor in cairo is one of hundreds of thousands of egyptians who make their living in what economists describe as egypt 's informal work force : selling , delivering , cooking , cleaning , serving , ferrying , shoeshining , anything that will provide income . this informal sector is thought to account for as much as 60 percent of egypt 's economy .
 new_york state legislature passes property tax relief plan that expands existing school tax relief program , giving average of $ 250 per year to homeowners outside new_york_city . tax relief for city residents would take form of larger income tax credit . passage ends long struggle between lawmakers and gov george_e_pataki over his insistence that school tax relief school go only to homeowners in school districts agreeing to limit spending increases to 4 percent per year .
 bush administration , including white_house press sec scott_mcclellan , backs away from prediction last week that us will gain average of more than 300,000 jobs a month this year . secs john w snow and donald_h_evans , promoting bush economic policy on west_coast , reportedly are told to distance administration from projection .
 terrence_rafferty article on film forum 's anniversary celebration of japanese-language version of godzilla , produced in 1954 , which will be shown for two weeks in restored , uncut version . american version , godzilla , king of the monsters , which removed about 40 minutes from japanese original and inserted 20 minutes or so of new scenes featuring sympathetic yank journalist , played by raymond_burr , did its darnest to minimize nuclear theme . many of japanese characters ' explicit references to bomb were jettisoned . most significant difference between japanese godzilla , directed by ishiro_honda , and american version , which credits terry_morse as co-director , is that of tone .
 competition for art gallery space is probably fiercest in heart of art market in chelsea section of manhattan , neighborhood that has become magnet for contemporary art collectors . core gallery district stretches from 20th to 26th streets between 10th and 11th avenues . gallery space above ground floor can rent for as much as $ 50 per square foot . chelsea is not only art district in manhattan . there has long been nexus for art dealers uptown on 57th street near fifth avenue .
 risk management and security firms are providing services to companies entering dangerous regions in increasingly global economy . national_association_of_security_companies executive director joseph_ricci says industry has grown by 10 to 12 percent annually since september 11 . ijet intelligent risk systems sends out daily intelligence briefings on global hot spots for more than 400 clients . kroll subsidiary of marsh risk management firm runs travel safety and security programs for companies .
 article on work of new jersey 's joint terrorism task force , formed in 1985 and made up of 30 local , county and federal agencies . team members work at fbi building in newark and report back to their own agencies . individual agencies pay task force members ' salaries while fbi finances overtime and equipment . there are now 100 such terrorism teams nationwide .
 european_union 's diplomatic representatives in east_jerusalam and ramallah sharply criticize israel 's policy in east_jerusalem , saying they are ` reducing the possibility of reaching a final-status agreement on jerusalem that any palestinian could accept ' . recommend more aggressive european stance toward israeli policies in east_jerusalem , whose annexation by israel has not been recognized by european_union or united_states .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column says howard_dean has done his best , in wake of iowa caucus loss , to be humble , even though he clearly does not think problem is in himself . cites his appearances on david_letterman show and interview he and his wife gave to diane_sawyer on abc , in which he talked of ` leading with my hart ' . says judy_dean seems charming , and antithetical as possible to notion of a first lady .
 sony_corp 's new chief executive sir howard_stringer has no plans to give up reins to american entertainment operations anytime soon . stringer called andrew_lack , chief executive of sony_bmg music entertainment , and michael_lynton , chairman of sony_pictures_entertainment , and assured them that they will continue to report to him in newly realigned sony . stringer , formerly chief executive of sony_corp_of_america , also told two executives that he will not immediately seek anyone to take over his old job .
 maj gen david_h_petraeus ventures few blocks into town of najaf , iraq , and is greeted by residents with cheers and smiles in what constitutes welcome break for american forces who have encountered generally sullen or hostile reception from mainly shiite population of southern_iraq . petraeus says army 's 101st airborne division is poised to seize full control of najaf in next day or so , which would make it first significant town to fall unambiguously in us hands .
 article on possibility that verizon_communications_inc , considering opening new operations center at former at & t campus in basking ridge , may revive new jersey 's flagging telecommunications industry . at stake are 2,000 jobs that would be shifted from verizon headquarters in new_york as well as 2,500 jobs at verizon_wireless , based in bedminster .
 south_korea 's shipbuilding industry is thriving despite global economic downturn and slowing of south korean economy . hyundai_heavy_industries is accepting orders for delivery three and four years from now . korea_shipbuilders_association_says_nation 's nine builders will have enough work to keep them busy for next two and half years , even if there are no additional orders for their ships , which might sell for $ 67 million for 300,000-ton crude oil carrier and as much as $ 200 million for carrier capable of transporting liquefied natural gas .
 cross-examination of hollinger international former director marie-jose_kravis at trial_of_conrad_m_black gets heated when defense_lawyer_edward_greenspan attempts to portray kravis as forgetful or inept . kravis maintains that she and other directors were misled about millions of dollars in payments black and other executives received . kravis was member of audit committee at hollinger from 1998 to 2001 , period in which he and three colleagues are accused of paying themselves over $ 60 million in unauthorized bonuses .
 st john_'s_university expells basketball player grady_reynolds and suspends players elijah_ingram , abe_keita , lamont_hamilton and mohammed diakite . players are reportedly connected to incident involving sherri_ann_urbanek-bach of queens -lrb- nyc -rrb- , who was later charged with lying to police about players raping her . police have not charged players , who met urbanek-bach at strip club , but st john 's insists they acted in manner inconsistent with school 's values .
 william_safire op-ed column on two recent magazine articles revealing evidence that saddam_hussein 's spy agency and top al qaeda operatives were in frequent contact for decade , and that there is renewed reason to suspect iraqi spymaster in prague may have helped finance 9/11 attacks . says hussein 's regime may be implicated in murder of 3,000 americans , and fbi should stop treating 9/11 as cold case and examine new leads .
 analysis : annuoncement that federated department stores is acquiring may department_stores reflects how much department store presence in marketplace has diminished . analysts anticipate that federated 's chief executive terry_j_lundgren will significantly reduce number of stores and bring them under fewer banner names . npd group says that in last eight years , department stores have lost about $ 2.5 billion in sales , money lost to discount merchants and specialty shops .
 congress cuts budget for national_science_foundation , engine for research in science and technology , just two years after endorsing plan to double amount given to agency by 2007 . rep vernon_j_ehlers calls cut short-sighted . david_m_stonner , director of congressional_affairs_at_science_foundation , warns of impending period of austerity in research .
 three officials of on-time van lines , moving company based in brooklyn , go on trial in brooklyn on charges including extortion , fraud and conspiracy . prosecutors say that at least 15 customer were defrauded of an average of several thousand dollars from 1997 to 2001 . on trial are avinoam_damti , ofer yosef and shlomo_hababa .
 txu_corp says it is making plans to build two power plants in texas that would use advanced technology intended to capture carbon dioxide before it escapes into atmosphere . planning for new clean-coal generators would potentially help fill gap for state where population is expected to grow 20 percent , to nearly 30 million people , over next decade .
 pres bush is expected to call for substantial increase in spending to fight malaria in 15 nations in sub-saharan_africa , region hardest hit . malaria is one of deadliest diseases in developing world , and one of most preventable . it causes at least million deaths a year worldwide . bush 's new program would at least double $ 230 million us spends on fighting malaria now .
 california 's congressional democrats , while still urging voters to reject recall of gov gray_davis , endorse candidacy of lt gov cruz m bustamante should recall succeed . sen dianne_feinstein speaks out against strategy , while house minority leader rep nancy_pelosi supports it . two large unions , california teachers assn and cdf firefighters assn , endorse bustamante . poll by non-partisan_public_policy_institute_of_california_shows 58 percent of likely voters would remove davis , with actor arnold_schwarzenegger leading as replacement candidate , followed by bustamante .
 christopher_reardon article on pilobolus_dance theater , experimental collective based in litchfield_county , conn . says friction between directors -- robby_barnett , alison_chase , michael_tracy and jonathan_wolken -- has pushed troupe on verge of disbanding in recent years . holds itamar_kubovy , energetic theater director with knack for tempering backstage rivalries , has signed on as executive director of company , which will wrap up its annual four-week run at joyce theater .
 maltese immigrant sam_vassallo , superintendent of building at 131 riverside drive , buys $ 1.45 million co-op in building with extraordinary savings accumulated over 16 years of 80-hour workweeks and uncommon ability to save money . sam , wife rose and two children live in apartment , expertly renovated by sam and cohorts , cabinetmakers from malta .
 two of last four jailed members of baader-meinhof gang , later known as red_army_faction , petition for release from prison , stirring memories of anarchic season of far-left terrorism thirty years ago . neither christian klar nor brigitte_mohnhaupt has ever expressed remorse for murders during seven-month rampage in 1977 that traumatized country . each has served 24 years of life sentence . photos . intense media interest reflects germans ' fascination with time when terrorists railed in name of world revolution .
 united_nations_security_council_asks_international_criminal_court to investigate atrocities in sudan , placing court in international spotlight three years after it opened over united_states opposition . new institution in the hague is still wrestling with mechanics of how to carry out mandate to deal with large-scale human rights abuses . it faces high expectations but lacks practical experience . it is under pressure to act swiftly on conflict in darfur , where as many as 300,000 people have been killed and more than two million others displaced .
 state of tennessee is suing to force_maddox_foundation to return from mississippi , where it moved in 2000 , two years after death of dan_maddox , who set up foundation to keep his fortune out of hands of his children . says that maddox intended foundation to serve tennessee and that foundation moved without approval of probate court . criticizes management of foundation under robin_grindstaff_costa , maddox 's longtime assistant and foundation 's president , including its purchase of two sports teams . hints at shortcomings in mississippi 's oversight . foundation lawyers say it has done nothing wrong , and state of mississippi contends tennessee has no jurisdiction over foundation .
 article on carlos_williams , homeless man who for over 30 years slept most nights on bench outside muriel_denton 's beauty salon on brooklyn 's eastern_parkway and who came to have many friends in neighborhood . more than 100 neighbors attend his funeral at armstrong funeral home , paid for by donations from store owners and local residents .
 unprecedented appearance of avian influenza simultaneously in eight different countries has emphasized concerns about outbreak growing further and causing many human deaths through direct contact with infected birds . a -lrb- h5n1 -rrb- strain of bird flu killed 7 people in hong_kong in 1997 and 2003 . 11 people have died as result of contracting avian influenza in current outbreak . world health organization spokesman dick_thompson stresses need for better global public health network for animal diseases . vietnam , cambodia , china , indonesia , japan , laos , south_korea and thailand are battling current outbreak . integration of medical and veterinary medical training and sharing of information are called for .
 britain 's opposition conservatives unite to name longtime lawmaker michael_howard as their new leader in hopes of ending years of infighting and of mounting serious challenge to labor prime min tony_blair . howard is known as combative and feisty politician who was equal of blair in parliamentary debate when he was home secretary and blair was his opponent . is first jew to lead tories since 19th_century .
 crew member aboard ferry andrew_j_barberi and man on nearby tugboat say they saw asst capt richard_j_smith standing alone and erect over controls of vessel about one minute before it crashed into terminal on oct_15 . man on tugboat says he saw capt michael_j_gansas running from manhattan pilothouse to staten_island pilothouse after accident . accounts do not support smith 's statement that he lost consciousness and gansas ' statement that he tried to stop ferry from hitting pier . medical tests on smith do not reveal any drugs that would cause him to lose consciousness .
 southern arizona_hiking_club honors request of late member charlie_whitmore to spread his ashes on each of club 's 315 authorized peaks . whitmore reached all 315 before his death in 2005 . group has spread ashes on 176 peaks so far . whitmore friend and club member richard_kane keeps ashes at his tucson_house .
 polo has become increasingly popular in united_states , in part because cost of getting started is now comparable to that of joining upscale golf club . costs can still escalate quickly . number of participants has risen 1 to 3 percent a year over last decade . much of growth is coming from high school and college programs and from increased participation by women , who now make up 25 percent of players .
 new_york_yankees , who have had decades of charmed octobers , contemplate their colossal flop in game 7 of american_league_championship_series_against_boston_red_sox . manager joe_torre , asked to name turning point in series , points to game 5 , when hideki_matsui 's line drive with bases loaded was caught by red_sox right fielder trot_nixon . yankee did not score again for 15 innings . other turning points in series recalled . yankees principal owner george_steinbrenner tells general manager brian_cashman that he will not be fired as result of team 's collapse .
 lance cpl sok khak ung of marines , who served five months in iraq , suffering shrapnel wound and winning purple heart , is shot to death along with friend in driveway of his father 's home in long_beach , calif . his father , yoeun ung , fled cambodia in 1979 . shooting occurs in rundown section of city where asian , latino and african-american gangs contend for territory and influence . no one has been arrested .
 qwest_communications_international says net income of $ 150 million in its first_quarter compared to loss of $ 23.9 million year earlier . income was $ 179 million compared to loss of $ 47 million year ago . securities exchange commission looking into company 's past accounting irregularities has widened its investigation . justice department is conducting separate probe .
 stuart_bowen , federal inspector for iraq reconstruction , tells congress that 13 of 14 major projects built by american contractor parsons were substandard , with construction deficiencies and other serious problems . severely criticizes work by two other largest contractors in iraq -- bechtel and kbr , a subsidiary of halliburton . scope of problems with iraqi reconstruction failures sets off outrage among both democrats and republicans .
 policeofficer testifying for prosecution at pretrial hearing for daniel_pelosi says pelosi had jailhouse conversations with at least four fellow inmates in which he implicated himself in killing of r theodore_ammon . inmates ' statements filed with court claim pelosi talked of beating ammon to death with bat at his east hampton_mansion and his plans to bribe judge on his case . pelosi 's lawyer gerald_l_shargel dismisses statements , claiming they are from inmates hoping to receive leniency from prosecutors .
 george_vecsey sports of the times column discusses prospect of putting new jersey nets new home in brooklyn -lrb- nyc -rrb- , where professional sports has long since left and nets could thrive in more metropolitan environment . bruce_ratner , who bought team for $ 300 million , has said he would like to move team from new jersey to brooklyn . diagrams .
 larger republican majority in senate may offer pres bush increased opportunity to get some of his stalled judicial nominees confirmed . new senate_judiciary_committee chairman arlen_specter has been quietly lobbying democrats on behalf of nominees he believes have best chance of attracting democratic support , such as william_g_myers_iii , nominated to us court of appeals for ninth circuit , and william_h_pryor_jr , temporarily on us court of appeals for 11th circuit .
 article on plans for wildcliff , crumbling city-owned gothic_revival_house overlooking long_island sound in new_rochelle , ny . city is renovating house and preparing to turn it over to steven and jill_abusch as home for play group theater , nonprofit theater company for children and teens that couple founded in 1994 . house 's exterior was added to national register of historic places in 2002 but abusches need to raise more than $ 1 million to rebuild theater .
 profile of and interview with ed_sanders , 63 , and tuli_kupferberg , 79 , who founded the fugs_four_decades_ago , which many pop historians call first underground rock band . fugs have released new album , the fugs final cd -lrb- part 1 -rrb- , and will sing with their band at village underground in what they say may be their last gig .
 stamford , conn , criticizes as excessive the tax incentives being offered by state to diageo_plc to expand its presence in connecticut by moving from stamford , where it occupies 140,000 square feet of office space , to building under construction in norwalk , which will have 275,000 square feet of space . says diageo will get $ 40 million in incentives for raising its connecticut payroll by only 300 jobs : from 700 to 1,000 . developer of norwalk property in building and land technologies .
 article on nathan 's famous , which has posted net loss of $ 12.6 million over last four quarters . nathan 's has closed nine company-owned restaurants , reduced number of franchises from 377 to 351 and is seeking ways to revive struggling subsidiaries , kenny_rogers roasters and miami subs . nathan 's president wayne_norbitz comments .
 both sides say they like their chances in suit by alida_hernandez and james_moore charging ibm knowingly exposed them to harmful chemicals while they worked in ibm 's san_jose , calif , factory in late 1970 's and 1980 's that caused them to develop cancer . trial is adjourned for holidays .
 islamic militants holding american paul_marshall_johnson jr hostage in saudi_arabia threaten to kill him within 72 hours unless kingdom releases group 's fighters from jail . post images of him and videotape of their leader , abdelaziz_al-muqrin , on islamist web site . group , al_qaeda in arabian_peninsula , is believed inspired by osama bin laden 's terror network , rather than official arm of it . crown prince abdullah vows to step up fight against terrorist to protect millions of expatriates , including tens of thousands of westerners , living in saudi_arabia .
 boeing dismisses chief financial officer michael_sears and vice president darleen_druyun , charging ethical misconduct in talks between them about job while druyun was representing pentagon in contract talks . photos . boeing says two covered up discussions that took place during negotiations over multibillion-dollar contract to supply aerial refueling tankers . chairman philip m condit statement . defense department also probes whether druyun gave boeing proprietary financial data about competing bid from airbus . she joined boeing after resigning as deputy assistant secretary . critics see vindication of charge of $ 20-billion sweetheart deal . druyun 's daughter , heather , also works at boeing , and her suburban washington home was purchased by company lawyer , john_judy , who worked on tanker deal .
 habitats column on anthony_scott and wife beverly simeon-scott , immigrants from trinidad . couple and their three sons are often at center of trinidadian dinners shared by many of 48 families living on st_johns_place in crown heights section of brooklyn , where anthony_scott is superintendent for three of block 's buildings .
 mohamed alanssi is called to testify in federal court by defense for accused terrorist fund-raiser sheik mohamed ali_hassan_al-moayad and his aide mohammed mohsen_yahya zayed . alanssi is informer who taped men in frankfurt attempting to get money from him to support al_qaeda and hamas . prosecutors decided not to call alanssi as witness after he set himself on fire outside white_house in dc to draw attention to his history . fbi agent brian_murphy is questioned by defense .
 richard a clarke 's book is unexpected literary phenomenon whose account of counterterrorism failures within bush administration has been flying off shelves this week . in washington , clarke 's book , against all enemies : inside america 's war on terror , has hijacked news agenda and placed him in ranks of other best-selling washington authors . some booksellers around country are struggling to keep up with demand for book , which has gone into its fifth printing since it went on sale four days ago . there are signs that book 's appeal is extending beyond insular world of washington in week in which clarke 's story has been splashed across front pages of national newspapers and featured on televised news broadcasts as he testified before commission investigating sept 11 attacks . pew research center survey suggests national awareness of clarke 's arguments is quite high .
 ariel dorfman op-ed article says he fears that dark shadow of chile 's former dictator gen augusto_pinochet may continue to haunt country . says in order to truly exorcise him from chile 's existence , he would have had to stand trial against charges of torture and murder . says images of thousands of chileans celebrating pinochet 's death signals that perhaps chile is ready to start over again , free from fear that pinochet inspired .
 new_york_city firefighters battle 12 fires within 12 hours , underscoring added challenges of fighting fires in severe winter weather . at least nine firefighters are hurt in slips , trips and falls as water from fire hoses freezes . frozen hydrants , ice buildup in walls and piled snow on ground are among problems faced by firefighters battling three biggest blazes , fatal fire in flatlands , brooklyn , fire in east_new_york , brooklyn and apartment fire in washington_heights .
 congolese public speculates that supposed june 11 coup attempt by maj eric_lenge was orchestrated by pres joseph_kabila to consolidate his power . suspicions are prompted by ease of lenge 's escape . people are more worried about real crises that may come as elections loom in june 2005 . country has enjoyed uneasy peace since settlement in 2003 , but a dozen factions are represented in transitional government and armed rebellion continues in eastern congo .
 army staff sgt camilo_mejia turns himself in to military authorities after being awol for five months . requests conscientious objector status and makes his surrender public , as he denounces war and his commanders in iraq . mejia returned from iraq in october 2003 on two-week furlough and failed to report back . brief profile of mejia , who is native of nicaragua .
 warren e buffett 's company berkshire hathaway acquires pacificorp for $ 5.1 billion and assumption of $ 4.3 billion in debt from scottish power , buffett 's largest purchase in eight years . buffett , sounding bullish note for energy industry in general , promises to buy similar assets in future . pacificorp , which provides electricity to 1.6 million customers in six states in northwest , will become part of midamerican_energy_holdings , buffett 's utility company based in des_moines .
 arnold_schwarzenegger , california 's governor-elect , meets with pres bush in san_bernardino , beginning of bonding ritual between two leaders who may have lot to offer each other in months to come . schwarzenegger hopes for better relations between california and federal government , and republican leaders are nursing hopes that schwarzenegger 's victory in recall election is sign that bush can possibly carry california in 2004 .
 us supreme_court , 5 to 3 , rules mortgage lending subsidiaries of national banks are immune from state regulation . decision upholds controversial regulation issued six years ago by office of comptroller of currency , chief federal bank regulator . court holds in opinion by justice ruth_bader_ginsburg that assertion of regulatory power by comptroller of currency was fully , if implicitly , authorized by national_bank act . justice john_paul_stevens writes dissenting opinion that chief justice john_g_roberts jr and justice_antonin_scalia also sign . justice clarence_thomas recuses himself because his son and daughter-in-law both work for wachovia_bank , which filed lawsuit that led to case .
 financial analysts , union leaders , bond rating experts and workers express concern over shortfalls in connecticut state pension funds . standard & poor 's reports that connecticut , which has not met its full obligation to pension fund for at least a decade , has covered less than 60 percent of its liabilities to pension fund as of 2004 , compared with national average of 83.5 percent , and is $ 12.1 billion short .
 chad , among poorest countries in africa , is now its newest petrostate , with $ 3.7-billion underground pipeline carrying crude oil 670 miles from doba_basin oil fields through cameroon to atlantic_coast . photos . map . huge economic and cultural implications discussed . oil revenues are supposed to be used transparently to better lives of chad 's nine million people , which could set model for continent unless usual corruption sets in and chad becomes one more spectacular african failure .
 among victims of fire at rock concert in west_warwick , ri , are three friends from massachusetts bound by love for rock music : liz_arruda and derrick_silva , who are being treated for burns , and tom_marion , who died and who made arruda 's escape possible by pushing her to safety from pile of people . grief of marion 's mother , dot_marion , is tempered by that final act of heroism .
 national center for supercomputing applications at university_of_illinois at urbana-champaign builds supercomputer using 70 individual sony playstation 2 machines . project required no hardware engineering other than mounting playstations in a rack and connecting them with high-speed network switch . key is sony 's emotion engine graphics co-processor , which can perform up to 6.5 billion mathematical operations per second .
 madison and kim_hobley begin living together for first time in their eight-year-old marriage after madison is released from illinois death row with three other inmates pardoned by gov george_ryan . their relationship began after future mrs_hobley 's church group adopted hobley for its its prison ministry . hobley has been imprisoned since 1987 arson that killed his wife , infant son and five others , crime for which ryan says he was wrongly convicted .
 anthony s serra , former rikers_island jail complex supervisor who pleaded guilty to using correction officers to do work on his mahopac , ny , home while they were being paid by new_york_city , sold home last year at big profit . metlife is marketing its former manhattan headquarters for conversion to apartments . keith_hernandez , former met player , seeks to sell his manhattan bachelor apartment and will live with new bride in florida . gerald_marshall recently paid $ 4.2 million for long derelict townhouse in west 80 's off central park that will require substantial investment to make habitable .
 sec donald_rumsfeld 's warning to syria and iran not to commit ` hostile acts ' on iraq 's behalf draws approving reaction from pres bush , reflecting his team 's year-long private descriptions of confrontation with saddam_hussein as demonstration conflict . aides insist they have no intention of making iraq first of series of preventive wars , but also suggest that leaders from syria to north_korea may be getting the message .
 chicago has two st patrick 's day parades , one on south side and one on north side , reflecting divide between city 's irish . some south side irish consider north siders too reserved , and some north side irish say south_siders are too rambunctious . chicagoans who consider their ancestry primarily to be irish make up only 5 percent of city 's population , down from high of 30 precent .
 msgr charles_m_kavanagh , former pastor of st_raymond 's parish in bronx , is permanently barred from priesthood by cardinal edward_m_egan because of accusations by daniel_donohue that priest touched him inappropriately two decades ago , when he was seminarian in manhattan and kavanagh was his spiritual director . reportedly refuses to sign paper requesting laicization and plans to appeal case to vatican .
 wendy moonan antiques column : christie 's will hold auction of extensive reference library of antiquarian bookseller and manuscript dealer hans_peter_kraus . connoisseur 's antiques fare at 69th regiment armory in manhattan will feature antique american clocks . triple pier antiques show in manhattan will include bohemian pottery made by amphora_co_of_teplitz , austria .
 novelist robert_littell brings akhdan susarov from chechnya to attend alfred_university in western new_york state as way of thanking susarov 's father , adam , who saved life of littell 's son , jonathan , when two men were ambushed by rebels in chechnya , where they were delivering supplies for doctors without borders . alfred provides scholarship .
 sen john_kerry collected more than $ 34 million in june , including $ 3 million raised online on june 30 , setting record for single-day internet fund-raising . amount brings total to about $ 180 million , more than any challenger in presidential campaign history . pres bush , who holds overall fund-raising record , raised about $ 213 million through may , but campaign has not released figures for june .
 tribute center , interim museum of remembrance , prepares to open at world trade center site in new_york_city . galleries will hold exhibits related to sept 11 terrorist attacks . tribute center cost about $ 3.4 million to build and was financed by lower manhattan development corporation and port authority of new_york and new jersey .
 article on results of sotheby 's sale of impressionist and modern art , which totaled $ 194.2 million , below its low estimate of $ 203 million . many works fall short of sotheby 's expectations but several records are set . of 61 works offered , 13 are unsold . maternite -lrb- ii -rrb- sells for $ 39.2 million , record for gauguin at auction , to unidentified buyer .
 voters in yolo and sacramento counties in california will decide on nov 7 whether 77,000 electricity customers in yolo_county will be served by sacramento municipal utility district rather than their current utility , pacific_gas_&_electric_co , whose rates are roughly 40 percent higher than those in sacramento_county . pg & e , parent of pacific gas , has spent $ 10.4 million to defeat measure , which is supported by coalition of business owners , local officeholders and some public power advocates . election campaign is small but significant sign of modern-day efforts around nation to expand publicly owned power .
 martha_stewart living is cutting its rate base for first time since magazine began 12 years ago , because of declining readership . rate base will fall nearly 22 percent , to 1.8 million from 2.3 million , as of january . price for one-page , four-color ad will drop to $ 107,640 starting with january issue , from $ 129,766 .
 racketeering trial of peter_gotti begins in federal district court , manhattan . gotti is charged with conspiring to murder salvatore_gravano , former gambino underboss whose cooperation was instrumental in helping government convict john_gotti on murder and racketeering charges in 1992 . peter_gotti is serving nine-year prison sentence on money laundering and racketeering charges . thomas_carbonaro , other defendant in trial , is accused of participating in killings of gambino underlings edward_garofalo and frank_hydell .
 article on sen ted_stevens , republican from alaska , who is chairman of senate_appropriations_committee and who is known for short fuse and long memory . colleagues are reluctant to cross him . reputation puts him in strong position to restore more than $ 1 billion cut by house and senate from pres george w bush 's $ 87 billion emergency spending request for iraq and afghanistan . stevens is known as someone who gets things done , even if he has to add fuel to fire . his colleagues hold that stevens never directly retaliates against opponents .
 $ 10 million restoration of malibu pier , centerpiece of california town 's oceanfront life since its construction in 1906 , has been delayed by mishaps and disputes . battered pier was closed in 1997 and was to reopen this summer . jay_wagner , force behind renewal , is now aiming for 2004 opening . notes state 's requirement that pier be almost identical to its forebears has added time and difficulties to task .
 john a thain 's impending departure to run new_york_stock_exchange will leave goldman_sachs_group coping with most sweeping change in its management ranks since it became public company in 1999 . since july departure of john_l_thornton , who was co-president , thain has been heir apparent to henry_m_paulson_jr . that role appears to have fallen to lloyd_c_blankfein , who is named to succeed thain as president and chief operating officer . goldman also announces that vice chairman robert k steel will retire late in january .
 tens of thousands of businesspeople now fly in and out of willow run airport in ypsilanti , mich , on shuttles operated by johnson controls and pfizer . detroit metro airport seven miles east is also enjoying surge in passenger traffic . wayne county leaders see two airports as anchors of airport_city , new regional development strategy to attract high-tech manufacturers , research campuses , housing and jobs .
 article on troubles that have beset walt disney_co 's big-budget feature movie the alamo , starring dennis_quaid , billy_bob_thornton and jason_patric . film , originally slated to be directed by ron_howard and starring russell_crowe , is directed by john_lee_hancock and now has pg-13 rather than r rating . its release date has been pushed back from christmas 2003 to april 9 .
 consumer packaged food companies are drawing many more customers to their web sites than in past and keeping those visitors in place long enough to etch their logos in consumers ' consciousness . use cooking content , games , contests and promotions to attract visitors . top 10 such sites drew 9.5 million visitors in july , up from 5.4 million in 2002 . most gather several brands under one umbrella .
 presence of 2,500 french troops in ivory coast , france 's largest deployment in africa in two decades , is testing france 's longstanding commitment to africa . france has remained engaged in africa , but no longer has ability or will to fully control destinies of its former colonies . peacekeeping mission has morphed into something more ambitious and dangerous as troops find themselves trying to stop rebels from advancing without force needed to defeat rebels .
 atty gen john_ashcroft , one of most prominent and polarizing members of bush cabinet , announces he will resign , following tumultuous tenure in which he was praised for aggressive fight against terrorists but assailed by critics who said he sacrified civil liberties in wake of sept 11 attacks . commerce sec_donald_l_evans also resigns . they are first in series of expected departures before january inauguration . leading candidates to succeed ashcroft include white_house counsel alberto_r_gonzales and bush 's re-election chairman marc_racicot . cincinnati businessman mercer_reynolds is top candidate to succeed evans . in ashcroft 's letter of resignation , he expresses satisfaction in his record and ` securing the safety of americans from crime and terror ' . photos . highlights of ashcroft 's tenure .
 steven_campus , new owner of legendary beekman place , new_york_city , penthouse designed by architect paul_rudolph , is suing to force neighbor william_r_rupp to take down wall rupp erected , holding it blocks his windows and his planned renovation . city buildings department weighs revoking permit for wall . dispute that led to wall detailed . lorraine_grasso , wife of former new_york_stock_exchange chairman richard_a_grasso , has bought duplex condominium in converted tribeca_warehouse . grassos already own duplex in building .
 desert in southern iraq that is still strewn with detritus of persian_gulf war 12 years ago now shows signs of destruction from new war . two iraqi border posts lay in twisted ruins , destroyed by shuddering barrage of artillery fire from kuwaiti side as army 's third infantry division , thrusting to west of american_marines and british forces , opens ground campaign intended to help drive saddam hussein from power . iraqi resistance is light . first two border posts are empty , their soldiers having fled . three iraqis die in truck inside compound attacked by tank and three fighting vehicles . there are no immediate reports of any american casualties along desert frontier . with holes in fences and berms that once separated kuwait and iraq , thousands of american_soldiers_cross wide swath of border in what commanders call efficient , successful operation .
 pres leonid d kuchma 's decision not to seek third five-year term opens fierce and increasingly nasty presidentical campaign in ukraine . polls suggest fierce race between two most prominent candidates : former prime minister viktor a yushchenko , leader of anti-kuchma opposition , and current prime minister viktor_yanukovich , who promises to carry out kuchma 's legacy . neither front-runner is expected to win outright majority in elections oct 31 . runoff is scheduled for nov 21 .
 some analysts at cia complain that senior bush administration officials have exaggerated significance of some intelligence reports about iraq , particularly about its possible links to terrorism , and some fbi investigators are baffled by administration 's insistence on solid link between iraq and qaeda , which they do not think exists . deputy defense sec paul d wolfowitz and stephen_j_hadley , deputy national security adviser , are cited as being most eager to interpret evidence deemed murky by intelligence officials to show clearer picture of iraq 's involvement in illicit weapons programs and terrorism . sec of state_colin_l_powell , in addressing united_nations_security_council , is expected to cite intelligence of possible connections between saddam_hussein , ansar_al-islam , islamic militant group that may have produced poisons in remote region of northern iraq , and abu_mussab_al-zarqawi , qaeda leader .
 retailers hope for final burst of shopping on dec 26 , especially those that had disappointing holiday season . most analysts expect sales at stores over all to be 3 percent to 6 percent higher than last year 's dismal holiday numbers , but some retailers were anticipating double-digit growth . day and week after christmas have been gaining in sales over last two years , with increased use of gift cards , or prepaid plastic gift certificates , which now make up $ 17 billion of holiday retail spending .
 pentagon is pressing congress to approve new weapon that would enable us to carry out nonnuclear missile strikes against distant targets within one hour . plan sets off complex debate about whether system would increase risk of accidential nuclear confrontation . calls for deploying new nonnuclear warhead atop submarine-launched trident ii missile that could attack terrorist camps , enemy missile sites and caches of chemical or nuclear weapons . would cost estimated half billion dollars over five years . pentagon requests $ 127 million to start work . lawmakers like sen jack_reed are concerned because trident ii missile has long been equipped with nuclear payload . gen james e cartwright outlines proposal .
 stephen_g_goetz , california small businessman , contends in lawsuit that american_express stole his idea for tagline of company 's ` my life . my card ' advertising campaign , which features celebrities including robert_deniro , ellen_degeneres and tiger_woods . judge lewis a kaplan rules that issues in case of brand identity theft can go to trial . america_express maintains in court filings that it owns legal rights to slogan .
 prosecutors in perjury trial of former white_house aide i lewis_libby jr bring former government officials robert_l_grenier and craig_schmall before jury to testify that they had informed him about identity of cia operative valerie_wilson , contrary to libby 's claim that he had learned about her weeks later from reporters .
 sec of state_condoleezza_rice tells russian foreign min sergey v lavrov in ankara , turkey , that pres vladimir_putin 's crackdown on dissent makes russian-american relations ` more difficult , ' but signals that united_states will not try to isolate russia , despite pres bush 's inaugural vow to spread freedom . rice emphasizes that cooperation with russia has led to progress in combating terrorism .
 nassau_county exec thomas_suozzi presents ` vision for a new_suburbia , ' ideas for transit systems and other amenities surrounding new mid-rise office development in and around nassau coliseum . core development includes new office towers , revamped coliseum and outdoor plazas above lowered section of hempstead turnpike that he describes as nassau crossroads . says county would use $ 2.7 million federal grant to continue studying transportation alternatives . speaks of transforming hempstead , which has large black and hispanic population , into college town with housing for students and teachers from hofstra and adelphi_universities and nassau_community_college .
 general_motors_corp , originator of tracking stock , is retiring its last such issue in deal that treats gm differently from investors who bought stock . parent has lot of cash and higher price for its shares in hughes_electronics . public shareholders get paper . gm will get $ 3.3 billion in cash , and stake in rupert_murdoch 's holding company news corp from disposal of hughes_electronics , whose principal asset is directv satellite television business . members of public who invested in hughes through gm class h shares will get different deal , consisting of stock in hughes and in news_corp , but no cash . gm 's chief financial officer john_m_devine comments .
 sec files civil fraud complaint against kpmg , alleging that firm knew for years that xerox was improperly inflating its profits and helped it do so . suit also names four kpmg partners : michael_a_conway , one of its most senior offficials and former chairman of accounting industry group that was in charge of assuring that firms did quality work , anthony_p_dolanski , ronald a safran and joseph_t_boyle . seeks fines and injunctions against further violation of securities law . firm says suit is unjustified .
 finding an apartment and reputable real estate agent in new_york_city is not easy for young people moving to city . vacancy rates are 0.78 percent and rental prices have gone up 15 percent over last summer . legal rentals for under $ 1,500 a bedroom disappear within 24 hours of listing . agent and landlord fees are high , and many young people with low salaries have parents act as guarantor . online services are attempting to curtail listing abuses and are often best sources for finding apartment .
 house approves $ 447 billion military package that includes extra $ 25 billion sought by bush administration to pay for operations in iraq and afghanistan through early next year . bipartisan measure , which passes 391-34 , is specifically geared toward needs of troops . senate is moving more slowly with its $ 422 billion package and abandons hopes of finishing before memorial day break . details of package noted .
 gulfport and neighboring biloxi , miss , face almost unimaginable catastrophe in wake of hurricane katrina . floating casinos that employed many thousands of people , and businesses directly related to casinos , are in tatters . in biloxi , individual casinos were 7 of top 10 local taxpayers in 2004 . riverboat gambling is credited with reviving economies of both cities , as well as neighboring towns of long_beach and pass christian , both of which were leveled by storm . officials say 8 of 12 floating casionos appear to be damaged beyond repair .
 senate approves by voice vote bill sought by pres bush authorizing government to triple its spending on global aids , to $ 15 billion over five years . bill , similar to one passed by house , gives bush chance to show that america is committed to exercising moral as well as military might . bush hails passage . house republican leaders say they expect to adopt senate version . bill is intended to curb aids epidemic in 12 african and two caribbean nations . advocates for aids sufferers offer mixed reaction .
 fourth article in series the new_europe examines poland 's concern that insistence of current european_union member states on tightly controlled eastern border as prerequisite for polish membership will create new economic and ideological divide . western europeans worry about being flooded by low-cost labor from east . several countries have announced restrictions on job seekers from new states for several years . most of poland 's new security in east is being funded by western countries .
 stocks surge , but investors remain cautious . dow jones industrial average gains 206.24 points , or 2.1 percent , to close at 10,218.60 . standard & poor 's 500-stock index is up 22.45 points , or 2 percent , to 1,159.95 . nasdaq composite index surges 48.65 points , or 2.5 percent , to 1,962.41 . three market measures reamin down 4.3 percent or more for year .
 nearly 1,000 pages of documents containing images from notebook of eric_harris are released . harris and dylan_klebold killed 13 people and then themselves in 1999 at columbine_high_school in colorado . papers contain immature rants against world , declarations of invincibility and depressed mopes for girl interspersed with to-do lists that , in retrospect , are stuff of bleak horror . state_supreme_court ordered release of materials that were in public interest .
 robert_rubin , retired new_york commodities trader and collector of rare cars and modernist furniture , pays more than $ 1 million to retrieve prefab_metal_house from brazzaville , capital of congo republic , during civil war , ship it to france , and restore it to its original condition . house was flattened , and shipped to presles , outside paris , where it was restored with help of alain banneel , craftsman . house , maison_tropicale , is seen early masterpiece of prefab architecture . it was home of french sales representative in congo .
 gypsy moths , whose numbers had been dwindling in much of northeast for several years , have made resurgence and are wreaking havoc on trees , particularly in new jersey . state_department_of_agriculture reports pests have infested 125,473 acres of forest , nearly triple acreage defoliated in state in 2005 and well above 6,502 acres infested in 2004 .
 archdiocese of new_york will close six struggling roman catholic elementary schools at end of year , one in greenwich_village , one in rockland_county and four in westchester . move comes days after brooklyn diocese officials say they will shutter 22 schools in biggest round of catholic school closings in city 's history . catholic school finances in new_york have been battered by declining enrollment , rising costs and competition from other schools .
 sen john_kerry ratchets up his character-based critique of pres bush , turning health-care forums in toledo , ohio , and milwaukee into attacks on his opponent 's honesty . accuses bush administration of manipulating reports to obscure fact that medicare premiums will eat up 37 percent of average person 's social security income by 2006 .
 lawyers for daimlerchrysler and kirk_kerkorian 's tracinda_corp spar at hearing before special master collins_j_seitz jr over daimlerchrysler 's tardy release of documents that could be significant in trial of kerkorian 's suit charging 1998 combination of daimler-benz and chrysler was stealth acquisition deceptively described as merger of equals . at issue are notes taken during talks that led up to merger by former chrysler chief financial officer gary_c_valade . daimlerchrysler discloses that another page that should have been provided has been discovered .
 international war crimes tribunal releases transcript of testimony earlier in week by former nato head gen wesley_k_clark , who seeks democratic presidential nomination . clark holds former yugoslav pres slobodan milosevic had advance knowledge of plan to massacre muslims in srebrenica , bosnia , in 1995 and was motivating and guiding force in most of events in four balkan wars in 1990 's . clark held over 100 hours of meetings with milosevic in 1990 's before he led nato bombing campaign that drove serbian forces from kosovo . milosevic , serving as own lawyer , cross-examined clark and called him liar who waged illegal war against him . scored court for barring his questions about kosovo war .
 laurie_goodstein analysis of prospects for roman_catholic_church under pope benedict_xvi . those who know him say that being 78 years old and mindful of how short his papacy may be , pope benedict may decide to move quickly to put his own stamp on church and to reverse its decline in secular west . he has spoken and written forcefully about his sense of threats to church , both internal and external , and has singled out spread of ` aggressive secularism , ' especially in europe and north_america .
 national postal museum , part of smithsonian institution , will auction off 35,000 revenue stamps in new_york on feb 12 . some of stamps were once affixed to wine , beer , narcotics and even marijuana as proof that ` sin ' taxes had been paid on items . federal government stopped using such stamps decades ago . auction , which is expected to raise $ 2 million for smithsonian 's national_philatelic_collection , will be held at four seasons hotel by matthew_bennett international .
 design challenges faced by two schools and two libraries under construction on long_island noted . projects are southampton_college_of_long_island_university 's energy efficent library , east_hampton elementary school building , reconstruction of long-closed port washington elementary school to meet current state standards and expansion of plainview-old bethpage public library . rendering -lrb- in the region / long_island -rrb- .
 olmedo hidalgo files $ 50-million federal civil rights lawsuit against new_york_city over his 14 year imprisonment for murder of bounder at palladium_nightclub . blames manhattan dist atty robert_m_morgenthau and police dept . says detective victoria_garcia and assistant dist atty stephen_saracco ignored evidence that contridicted their theory of crime . co-defendant david_lemus also had his conviction overturned , but is being retried .
 former enron chief financial officer andrew s fastow reportedly tentatively agrees to plead guilty to fraud charges and has provided evidence against another former top executive . deal , which involves prison sentence of at least 10 years , reportedly hinges in part on resolution of related case against fastow 's wife , lea . federal judge rejects her deal because it leaves him no ability to increase five month prison sentence , possibly delaying husband 's plea and expected charges against richard_a_causey , former chief accounting officer . deal with fastow and pressure on causey_means prosecutors have reached high enough in enron to determine whether knowledge of wrongdoing reached former chief executives jeffrey_k_skilling and kenneth l lay .
 article compares impact that falling dollar and rising euro is having on american and european manufacturing companies . focuses on markel_corp , family-owned business near philadelphia , pa , and alfred_h_schutte co of cologne , ger . while markel is scrambling to fill orders from germany , portugal and czech republic and pricing its products , insulated wire and tubing for cars , more competitively , schutte , another family-owned company , is losing orders for its million-dollar auto-related machines .
 report by new_york_state_assembly_task_force on 2006 queens blackout harshly criticizes con edison but says that staff reductions on oversight_state_public_service_commission contributed to failure to adequately monitor con_edison . questions whether con edison should have monopoly of ` indefinite duration ' . recommends state review of monopoly every 10 years .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg and rep tom delay halt their feuding , with bloomberg offering delay face-saving way to drop his plan to charter ship for members of congress at republican_national_convention in new_york_city . dispute began with bloomberg 's complaints that new_york was being short-changed by republican-controlled congress , and then it became personal .
 global relief effort converges on tsunami-ravaged coasts of indonesia and other stricken nations as millions of survivors grow increasingly desperate and death toll soars past 140,000 . relief operation confronts many problems , and most of aid is not getting through to those who need it . trickle of aid reaches handful of devastated communities in northern_sumatra . 10 helicopter airdrops and truckloads of supplies finally reach remote meulaboh where 7,000 are confirmed dead and officials say third of population of 120,000 may have perished .
 sen barack_obama 's campaign says fundraising in first three months exceeded goals set when he entered race in jan . reports raising $ 25 million , with donations from 100,000 people , half of whom contributed through internet and thousands of whom gave $ 25 . figures show obama standing toe to toe with sen_hillary_rodham_clinton , whose campaign raised $ 26 million .
 five more suspects are arrested in madrid train bombings , bringing total number of detainees to 10 as evidence mounts that plot was led by moroccan militants with ties to al_qaeda . senior foreign intelligence official says there are fresh indications that lead suspect jamal_zougam dealt closely with spain-based qaeda cell that may have assisted sept 11 hijackers . closed hearing is held by juan_del_olmo , investigating magistrate in charge of case .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column holds that prince turki_al-faisal , saudi ambassador to washington , is confused about pres bush 's goal of replacing most middle_east oil with alternative fuels . cites prince faisal 's contention that last_fall , when sec_of_state_condoleezza_rice was in jidda , saudis and us launched ` strategic dialogue , ' which included promise by saudis to pump more oil .
 news analysis of defense_sec_donald_h_rumsfeld 's visit to south_america , with stops in paraguay and peru . says his warnings of troublemaking by pres hugo_chavez of venezuela and fidel_castro of cuba gave his trip throwback feel of mission during cold war , when american officials regularly sought to bolster hemisphere 's governments against leftist insurgencies and communist infiltration .
 walt disney_co chief exec michael_d_eisner , defending himself and his board in lawsuit brought by stockholders , was called upon to outline shortcomings of his former second-in-command , michael_s_ovitz , and defend $ 140 million payout that ovitz received when he left company after only 14 months . eisner , to win lawsuit , has to acknowledge that it was wrong to hire ovitz in first place .
 bureau_of_labor_statistics reports unemployment rate declined in january to 4.7 percent , lowest level in more than four years . hiring in nearly every industry added 193,000 jobs to work force , well short of what forecasters expected . revisions for november and december push average monthly job growth to hefty 229,000 . treasury secretary john snow cautiously welcomes jobs news and maintains that wages could continue to rise without forcing companies to push up prices .
 cargill , closely held agribusiness giant , is expected to announce it has agreed to merge its fertilizer business with imc global , one of nation 's largest fertilizer companies , in deal estimated at more than $ 5 billion . cargill would hold two-thirds stake in combined company . deal would give cargill its first publicly traded vehicle to raise money in capital capitals . cargill has done many acquisitions in past , taking companies private .
 many journalists in philippines arm themselves and hired bodyguards out of fear for their lives . committee to protect journalists ranks philippines among most dangerous countries outside war zones for journalists , along with algeria , pakistan , colombia , cuba and russia . says that since pres ferdinand e marcos was driven from office in 1986 , 40 journalists have been killed . none of cases has been solved .
 many of nation 's 90,000 public schools are feeling battered and worn down as school starts . most states have reacted to declining tax revenues by trimming education spending , setting stage for one of most austere school years in memory . dozens of oklahoma schools are reeling from financial turmoil that forced closing of seven schools and dismissal of 600 teachers at end of school year . budget crisis in alabama has left 38 of state 's 129 school systems on verge of bankruptcy .
 new_york state auditors charge that suriel n zayas , department_of_transportation_office manager on project to rebuild portion west side highway in 1998 , helped contractor grace industries get paid $ 516,610 for construction materials that were apparently never used . say zayas , at direction of supervisor thomas_bowers , filed sham reports . zayas 's role in project is under scrutiny as part of investigation by state inspector general into payments to grace . zayas left state payroll in 2001 and took job with grace several months later , prohibited by state ethics laws . investigation is raising questions about transportation_department 's oversight .
 article on recent reunion of eight of 20 women from across us who came to new_york in 1953 to work as guest editors at mademoiselle_magazine . original group , which included sylvia_plath , was photographed together at what used to be barbizon hotel for women on lexington ave and became legendary because of plath 's 1963 book the bell jar . photos .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column conducts imaginary interview with osama bin laden in kabul , discussing us presidential election . in imaginary interview , bin laden concludes pres bush has enjoyed some success fighting al_qaeda and protecting united_states , but has been more successful as ` recruiter for terrorists ' by radicalizing muslim world . predicts bush election victory could lead to islamic revolutions in egypt or pakistan , which would give islamists new base and perhaps nuclear weapons .
 pres bush 's 2005 budget calls for patent and trademark office to keep $ 1.32 billion it is expected to take in from patent-seeking public . acting director jon w dudas expresses cautious optimism , noting diversion of revenues in previous years has kept slowed down planned five-year overhaul , interview . congress has diverted over $ 650 million of user fees collected by office to unrelated programs since 1991 .
 foes of california 's governor say recall is a certainty * * california gov gray_davis , re-elected only eight months ago , will likely face recall election as early as this fall after political opponents report having enough signatures to put question on ballot . republican rep darrell_issa has bankrolled drive with more than $ 1 million of his own money and plans to run for governor himself . photo . davis and democrats vow fight .
 sen charles_e_schumer 's decision not to run for governor in 2006 has reshaped new_york state 's political terrain and offered significant boost to gubernatorial aspirations of atty gen eliot spitzer . over half-dozen candidates have emerged to succeed spitzer , including assemblymen michael_n_gianaris of queens and richard_l_brodsky of westchester_county . several candidates , including jason_gooljar , web site designer , and thomas_j_abinanti , member of westchester_county_board_of_legislators , plan to run for brodsky 's seat . gus prentzas and gus_antonopoulos are among number of politically minded residents in astoria , queens , who plan to run for gianaris 's assembly seat .
 madam marta_becket , 79-year-old diva of amargosa_opera_house in death_valley_junction , calif , is also owner , choreographer and ticket taker , among other roles . gives 50 performances a season , from october through may , in theater she created from abandoned social hall of pacific_borax_co after being stranded in death_valley with flat tire 36 years ago .
 new_york_university_law_school_brennan_center_for_justice report calls new_york state legislature least deliberate and most dysfunctional state legislature in nation . charges that legislature systematically limits roles played by legislators and public . notes that from 1997 to 2001 not one out of 11,474 bills that reached floor was defeated . says that legislature held public hearings on less than 1 percent of major laws it passed . senate majority leader joseph_l_bruno calls report ` pure nonsense ' .
 national_cattlemen_'s_beef_association is hoping to inject some red meat into american snack food diet with cheeseberger fries . fries , which look like squat version of standard french fries , are made of meat-and-cheese compound that tastes like cheeseburger . cheeseburger fries are being sold in nebraska , minnesota and texas since june . national beef consumption continues to decline . americans ate 77.1 pounds of beef per capita and 51.3 pounds of chicken two years ago . consumed 66.2 pounds of beef per capita and 75.6 pounds of chicken in 2001 .
 trade agreement between us and china limiting china 's clothing exports for next three years makes official what has already been happening : return of quotas , at least for world 's textile and apparel power . last-minute deal removes persistent thorn in chinese-american relations shortly before pres bush is to visit beijing at end of next week . agreement concluded by china 's commerce min bo_xilai and us trade representative rob_portman allows china to increase its exports slightly each year until 2008 , but puts limits on growth and includes wider range of products than those already affected by restrictions . pres bush calls us trade imbalance with china ` bothersome ' to some people and says china should do more to open country 's markets and promote greater currency flexibility .
 article on executives ' reluctance to relinquish both titles of chairman and chief executive in effort to conform with new corporate governance rules . focuses on charles_schwab 's founder and chairman charles_r_schwab , who gave up title of co-chief executive in may 2003 , then demanded on july 20 resignation of his hand-picked successor david_s_pottruck and reassumed title of chief executive . says schwab 's backtracking reopens question of whether splitting two jobs is , in itself , real change for good or just sop to appease governance gadflies .
 mario_monti , europe 's competition commissioner , will approve france 's aid to ailing industrial alstom , after getting firm commitment from french government to find privately owned partners for company 's main businesses . approval of more than 3 billion euros -lrb- $ 3.63 billion -rrb- in state aid is seen as only way of averting bankruptcy for alstom .
 chrysler , which has been on perpetual roller coaster ride in recent decades from financial crises to surging sales , will probably have more bad news in coming months . chrysler has lost its no 3 spot in american market to toyota , watched its once-envied profits evaporate , and faced near rebellion from dealers who were angry at being saddled with oversupply of mostly gas-thirsty vehicles that were out of step with consumers ' demands for more fuel-efficient vehicles . chief executive thomas w lasorda could be leaving chrysler for job at its parent daimlerchrysler . lasorda is racing to put together yet another turnaround plan , which chrysler is expected to roll out in late january to stem losses that are expected to top $ 1.2 billion this year .
 sars remains extremely dangerous for nurses , hundreds of whom have been infected in canada and asia despite many precautions . in hong_kong , two or three more health care workers , usually nurses , are still being infected every day . nurses now make up 55 percent of 368 health care workers in hong_kong who have confirmed cases of sars . doctors account for 15 percent of cases . remaining 30 percent of cases are among ward attendants , nursing assistants , cleaners and other hospital workers .
 j christopher flowers , architect of $ 25 billion deal to take sallie_mae private , has had history of daring financial challenges . flowers 's firm j_c_flowers_&_co has engineered largest leveraged buyout of financial services company . flowers and private equity firm friedman_fleischer_&_lowe will invest $ 4.4 billion in sallie_mae and control 50.2 percent of company , officially known as slm_corp . j p morgan chase and bank_of_america will acquire rest and provide financing for transaction .
 article on satellite infant day care center being opened by elizabeth_mascia_child_care_center in sleepy hollow , ny . despite high demand , only half of 180 licensed child care centers in westchester_county have space for infants ages 6 weeks to 18 months old . center director maureen_barbelet and co-founder elizabeth_mascia comment .
 hotel reina_victoria , traditional hub of madrid 's bullfighting culture and place where spain 's great matadors have been dressing for more than 60 years , shuts down . will reopen as hard rock hotel madrid . practically all of bullfighting 's legendary figures stayed there at one time or another since its construction in 1920 's .
 farnando poe jr , one of philippines ' most popular actors , is running for president and is thought to have chance to defeat incumbent pres gloria_macapagal_arroyo . in 2001 , she replaced another actor-turned-president joseph_estrada , who was forced out of office in kickback scandal . latest polls show poe and arroyo virtually tied . vote is on may 10 .
 michael_jackson is acquitted of all charges against him . jury that heard three months of often lurid testimony about his life and relationships with young boys rejects teenager 's claim that jackson plied him with liquor and sexually molested him . jackson faced charges that could have brought 20 years in prison . jury deliberates for about 30 hours over seven days before reaching decision . verdict is devastating disappointment for dist atty thomas w snedden of santa_barbara_county , who has pursued jackson for 12 years , since time another boy made similar accusation . trial recalled . time line of major events in jackson 's life .
 possible nominees for filling first supreme_court vacancy in 11 years are mix of old friends , adversaries and acquaintances . prominently seen as being uppermost on pres bush 's short list are federal appeals court judges j michael_luttig and john_g_roberts and atty gen alberto_gonzales . relationships and links to each other and sitting justices described . similarly complex personal and political history among members of senate_judiciary_committee noted .
 amtrak ridership for first half of its current fiscal year is down to 11.37 million from 11.46 million in same period a year earlier . worries about terrorism and desire of businesses to reduce their travel expenses have been compounded by maintenance problems on its flagship acela express trains and scattered equipment and track problems elsewhere . david_gunn , president , discusses initiatives to increase ridership .
 secretary of state condoleezza_rice , making her fourth visit to israel this year , again implores israelis and palestinians to resolve their differences . bush administration said to be frustrated over lack of progress since israel withdrew from gaza in summer . among points of contention between israel and palestinians are establishment of crossings for goods and people into and out of gaza , pullback of israeli troops from west_bank towns and agreement to arm palestinian security forces . james d wolfenshon , special envoy , says israel does not share his sense of urgency about resolving questions that keep most gazans confined to territory . he blames palestinians for some delays also .
 pres bush 's re-election campaign will launch $ 10 million advertising drive to attack sen john_kerry on national security issues . bush hopes to use kerry 's voting record to convince public that kerry does not understand stakes involved in war on terrorism . campaign is to be coordinated with speeches by vice pres cheney and senior republicans in nine swing states . kerry will likely counter by citing his record of votes in favor of defense spending .
 bush administration is expected to announce major increase in aid to afghanistan that would greatly expand american role in country . pres bush has reportedly decided that investing more reconstruction money there now could lead to earlier exit for american forces and save money in long run . us currently is spending $ 11 billion a year on military forces in afghanistan and $ 900 million in reconstruction aid .
 coca-cola co announces that e neville_isdell , who left coke at end of 2001 after 35 years with company , will return as its chief executive when douglas_n_daft retires this summer . analysts generally applaud choice , but others are surprised coke did not select outsider . donald_r_keough , director who headed search committee , insists isdell was front-runner all along .
 us and saudi officials grew increasingly alarmed in two weeks before riyadh truck bombings about intercepted communications that gave ` strong indications ' of imminent attack by islamic terrorists against americans in saudi_arabia . at least 20 people , including seven americans , were killed in precise , well-coordinated strikes at three civilian housing complexes . us says al_qaeda is almost certainly responsible and believes attacks were timed to coincide with sec_colin_powell 's visit . photos . vice pres cheney says only way to deal with threat is to destroy it . indications of more attacks also noted .
 study by actuarial firm milliman_usa_of_pension_funds_of_nation 's biggest corporations shows that nearly half made assumptions about their investment returns for 2002 that would be deemed too aggressive by federal regulators , starting this year . of 100 companies examined , 45 used annual rate of return of more than 9 percent , proposed standard for this year . eight of companies assumed that their pension funds would have returns of 10 percent or more . companies that used highest estimates included northwest_airlines , general_motors and honeywell_international . optimistic assumptions about returns on fund investments translated into billions of dollars for corporate america 's collective bottom line in 2002 .
 pension benefit guaranty_corp , which insures pension plans , says its deficit , already at highest in its history , doubled in last fiscal year , to $ 23.3 billion . says it incurred losses of $ 12.1 billion over 12-month period . agency 's executive director bradley d belt calls on congress to address situation quickly . says bush administration is preparing plan for comprehensive overhaul of pension system , which it will propose in early 2005 .
 engineers narrow down options for altering or replacing tappan zee bridge from 156 proposals to 15 . hudson river crossing linking westchester and rockland counties in new_york was built 48 years ago and expected to last 50 years , handling 130,000 vehicles instead of 100,000 it was designed to carry each day .
 pres bush meets with mahmoud_abbas at white_house and presses palestinian leader to confront threat of armed gangs . also cautions that palestinian state may not be established when his own term ends . two promise to push negotiation process forward and bush calls on israel to ease conditions on west_bank and stop expanding settlements . photo . bush says james_wolfensohn will continue as special envoy .
 ivan_wright , 69-year-old cocaine dealer who has spend more than 19 years in prison under new_york 's rockefeller drug laws , petitions court for release following legislature 's overhaul of mandatory sentences . brooklyn dist atty charles_j_hynes supports application . state has 446 offenders serving at least 15 years to life under rockefeller laws .
 emirates palace in abu_dhabi , said to be most expensive hotel ever built , opens . estimated cost was $ 3 billion . hotel has fewer than 400 rooms , but 128 kitchens and pantries and full-time staff of 10 just to keep 1,002 chrystal chandeliers clean . rooms range from $ 625 a night to $ 13,000 . other amenities described .
 sports entertainment enterprises , company owned by music_industry_financier_robert_f_x_sillerman , agrees to pay up to $ 161 million and 1.87 million in shares to acquire 19 entertainment ltd , private company based in london that owns american_idol and its franchises around world . shares of sillerman 's company , which is in process of changing its name to ckx , rise more than 58 percent following announcement .
 justice_dept , securities_and_exchange_commission and fbi are questioning current and former employees of coca-cola co about accusations that company inflated its sales figures by selling surplus beverage concentrate in several big international markets , including japan . probe centers on role of coke chairman-chief executive douglas_n_daft , who headed company 's middle_east and far_east businesses at time of alleged wrongdoing . investigation began in wake of lawsuit filed by former coke ex ecutive matthew_whitley alleging he was fired after notifying senior management of illegal practices .
 former state sen pedro_espada jr , longtime bronx official , is apparently returned to public office when he wins special election for city council seat . espada will fill remaining term of ruben_diaz sr , who defeated him in november in senate contest . espada defeats kenneth_padilla . in second hotly contested city council election , in brooklyn , vincent_gentile is locked in too-close-to-call race with rosemarie_o'keefe . espada photo .
 google_inc is search for price at which it will sell stock to public for first time . company begins taking bids on internet for 25.7 million of its shares after nearly three months of intense government scrutiny , few modest legal setbacks and rising investor skepticism . is hoping to sell about $ 3 billion worth of stock using form of dutch auction . expects to close auction next week .
 scottish & newcastle sells its chain of 1,400 pubs to privately held spirit amber group for $ 4.2 billion in cash . spirit amber , whose owners include blackstone_group , cvc_capital_partners , merrill_lynch global private equity and texas_pacific_group , also agrees to buy bout 500,000 barrels of beer annually for seven years from scottish_&_newcastle .
 trial opens in bridgeport , conn , mayor joseph_p_ganim 's corruption case . prosecutors charge that he stole taxpayer money , took bribes , indulged expensive tastes in food and clothes and ran city like personal kingdom . government 's case relies heavily on testimony from paul_j_pinto and leonard_j_grimaldi , once ganim 's trusted friends who each pleaded guilty in june 2001 to charges that they shook down contractors and paid portion to ganim . ganim 's lawyer richard_t_meehan jr rebuts prosecution 's case .
 prize sought by oracle_corp in its $ 7.7 billion bid for peoplesoft is peoplesoft 's customer list , not just its back-office software , which lets companies control their finances , inventory , procurement and the like . oracle sees peoplesoft 's back-office software as potentially worth billions in its own right , but anticipates making billions more by selling its own products to peoplesoft 's clients . some analysts , like charels j di bona , question intrinsic worth of peoplesoft 's customer list .
 stephanie_herseth , south_dakota democrat who won hard-fought house race , is first successful candidate to pay herself salary to run for congress . took advantage of changes to campaign finance rules that allow federal candidates to pay themselves wage from their campaign treasuries . has collected about $ 2,500 month since feb , equivalent of $ 30,000 year . larry_diedrich , her republican opponent , attacked her for taking salary .
 nondenominational lakewood church , nation 's largest congregation , moves into compaq_center , once home to houston rockets , after $ 95 million in renovations . church boasts 30,000 members , revenues of $ 55 million in 2004 and television audience in millions . like many evangelical churches , building has no cross or other religious iconography . pastor joel_osteen , who inherited church from his father in 1999 , spreads simple self-help message that congregants say is both uplifting and accessible . members see him as combination spiritual leader , motivational speaker and celebrity .
 article on teenage volunteer emergency workers in new_york metropolitan area . vast majority of teens have received certification in one of first two levels of emergency service training . training at summer session at emergency_medical_services_institute_at_stamford_hospital in connecticut and scene at darien_emergency_services_post 53 volunteer_ambulance_corps , which has 58 members ranging from 14-year-old candidates to 17 - and 18-year-old crew chiefs , described .
 senate_armed_services_committee chmn carl_levin will ask current and former white_house aides to testify about report by pentagon acting inspector gen thomas f gimble that criticized pentagon for compiling ` alternative intelligence ' that made case for invading iraq . pentagon 's pre-war analysis was made by team led by douglas_j_feith . his photo .
 los angeles prosecutor william_hodgman says documentary film featuring interview with oliver_o'grady , former priest convicted of molesting children , has heightened interest among law enforcement officials in considering criminal case against cardinal roger_m_mahony . o'grady , in documentary , deliver us from evil , describes how he abused young boys and girls across central_california over 20 years , including period in 1980 's when mahony was his superior as bishop in stockton . o'grady says he was able to continue abusing children in part because of actions by mahony , who now heads los_angeles archdiocese . film was written and directed by amy_berg .
 insurgents carry out second_day of deadly attacks in baghdad and mosul . roadside bomb in baghdad kills one american soldier and wounds five others , while suicide bomber kills eight iraqi police officers and wounds 38 . insurgents shooting from mosque in mosul kill two american soldiers and wound four others , while suicide bomber hits convoy of kurdish militiamen , killing at least 18 and wounding 16 . attacks in other areas noted .
 democratic and republican parties , realizing that 250 million people visit national parks every year , are latching onto nation 's natural wonders to gain advantage in 2004 . bush administration has asked park superintendents to call budget cuts ` service level adjustments ' . groups of active and retired park officials have released memorandums and budget figures that they claim show parks in disrepair . rep norm_dicks , democrat of washington state , recently toured olympic national park . he accuses administration of breaking its promise to eliminate national parks maintenance backlog of $ 5 billion . olympic park supt bill_laitner says park 's budget is down more than $ 200,000 from 2003 .
 alaska federal judge h russel_holland imposes punitive damages of $ 4.5 billion on exxon_mobil_corp for exxon_valdez 's spill of 11 million gallons of crude oil into prince william sound fifteen years ago . lawyers for 32,000 fishermen and residents say total with interest is about $ 6.75 billion . appeals court rejected two earlier awards as too high .
 new_york_city lost more than 3,300 hotel rooms in past few years , with estimated 1,093 hotel rooms lost in 2004 alone . owners cash in on booming apartment market , even as city forecasts need for thousands of new hotel rooms . three new hotels opened during 2004 , yielding just 339 rooms . new_york hotel and motel trades council vows to fight trend , starting with conversion at plaza hotel in manhattan , where plan to mix hotel with apartments could cost union 1,100 jobs . shrinking hotel space could also spell trouble for plans to expand jacob_k_javits_convention_center , which is estimated to generate additional 400,000 hotel nights a year .
 air canada , which has operated under supervision of bankruptcy court since april , is expected to ask ontario_superior_court judge on dec 8 to approve agreement that would make trinity time investments airline 's largest shareholder . trinity , controlled by victor_li , son of hong_kong magnate li_ka-shing , would acquire 31 percent of airline 's equity for 650 million canadian dollars -lrb- $ 500 million -rrb- . air canada struck deal with li on nov 8 after setting aside competing bid from cerberus_capital .
 norwegian police , following car chase and crash , arrest nine people after watercolor and two lithographs by edvard_munch are stolen from restaurant in hotel refsnes gods in moss . art is recovered . owner vidar_salbuvik , proprietor of hotel , hopes recovery will shed light on last_summer 's theft of munch 's masterpiece the scream from munch_museum in oslo .
 soldiers of new afghan army patrol in orgun near pakistani border in southeastern afghanistan . are first to be deployed outside kabul , and are stunning novelty for local people and american forces who share camp with them just outside town . people of orgun show support for afghan soldiers . overall plan is to build up , by 2004 , kabul-based central_corps that could deploy to regions needing extra security and chase down remnants of taliban and al_qaeda .
 thomas early and shona_seifert , former top executives of new_york_office_of_ogilvy_&_mather worldwide , are found guilty by federal jury of overbilling office of national drug policy for advertising work . each executive is convicted on all 10 counts , one count of conspiracy and nine of making false claims . will be sentenced by judge_richard_m_berman on may 16 .
 blood feud between sourchi and barzani_clans in kurdish region of northern iraq threatens unity of opposition groups pledged to defeat saddam_hussein and to reconcile tensions lingering from kurdish civil war in 1996 . discussed . sourchi family , led by najat_al-sourchi , is seeking revenge for killing of sourchi tribal elder by fighters loyal to massoud_barzani , leader of kurdish autonomy struggle . feud is one of several that exists beneath businesslike dialogue of changing iraq . is seen as worrisome indicator of peace in area where even people with common goals are intent on settling old scores .
 american military says two marines were killed by insurgents in anbar_province , iraq , and three american soldiers died in bombing in southern_baghdad , bringing month 's total of american troop deaths in iraq to at least 53 . rise follows decision by commanders to increase number of american troops patrolling baghdad in effort to quell sectarian violence that engulfs city . number of troops wounded in action , figure that usually parallels number of fatalities , has also increased drastically . iraq coalition casualty count says from september 28 to october 11 , 427 american troops were wounded , one of worst two-week stretches of war .
 article on widely fluctuating temperatures in manhattan office buildings . may 2003 survey by international_facilities_management_assn in houston says being too cold is top office complaint , followed by being too hot . department_of_energy 's office of energy efficiency and renewable energy suggests that heating be set at 68 degrees in winter and cooling at 78 degrees in summer . however , study by cornell_university human factors and ergonomics lab director alan hedge shows that warmer office temperatures yield more productivity .
 pres bush , by promising to appoint strict constructionists to supreme_court , has embraced mantra of every republican president since richard_nixon . four republican presidents in last 36 years have appointed all but two of current nine judges , but court has sided with liberals on most contested social issues , while only modestly advancing deregulatory agenda of republicans .
 house votes 222-203 , almost entirely along party lines , to cut taxes by $ 550 billion over ten years , strongly endorsing pres bush 's call to stimulate economy through lower taxes while differing on shape of package . plan is $ 176 billion smaller than bush 's version and rejects his priority of ending all taxation of corporate dividends , reducing top tax rate on dividends and capital gains to 15 percent . intense talks expected with counterparts in senate , where moderates have refused to accept cuts of more than $ 350 billion . table . house democrats rage at substance of plan and republican refusal to consider alternative proposal without big cuts in dividend and capital gains taxes .
 helen_harrison reviews art exhibition outlining history of garden design on long_island based on book by guest curator john_esten at guild_hall_museum in east_hampton , european garden plans exhibit at the drawing room in east_hampton and photographic exhibit of plants at tulla_booth_gallery in sag_harbor , ny . photos .
 david_geffen , hollywood executive who has shifted his support in democratic presidential campaign from sen hillary_rodham_clinton to sen_barak_obama , has been telling friends for two years that he thinks clinton is divisive figure who would fail to bring nation together . contributed to both of clinton 's senate campaigns in new_york even as his doubts about her rose .
 use of midwives is declining in new_york_city and around nation . face fast-rising malpractice insurance premiums are cited as cause , as well as new limitations imposed on their practices by many hospitals and health insurance companies . this comes after 20 years of rapid growth in field . in 1998 , certified nurse-midwives attended 7 percent of births nationally , but that figure has been going down since then . in new_york_city , where midwifery took hold more strongly than in most parts of country , certified nurse-midwives attended 9.7 percent of births in 2002 , down from 12.2 percent in 1997 .
 only one of democratic senators from states where pres bush plans to campaign this week for his social security plan says that he is not unalterably opposed to his main principle of diverting tax money into personal investment accounts . bush will campaign in arkansas , florida , montana , nebraska and north_dakota . lone democratic senator to withhold judgment on plan is sen ben_nelson of nebraska .
 royal philips electronics begins its first global brand campaign , effort that will appear in asia , europe and north_america at cost of 80 million euros -lrb- $ 97.5 million -rrb- . campaign , created by ddb worldwide , features products philips markets other than electronics . full philips product line includes medical imaging machines , norelco_electric_shavers , lighting systems , computer chips , semiconductors and coffee makers .
 hundreds of thousands of people brave sweltering heat and severe smog to march in victoria_park in hong_kong , demanding democracy and , to unprecedented extent , criticizing beijing . protesters show new boldness in denouncing mainland china for banning general elections in hong_kong and , in their view , trying to intimidate democrats . in china , government-controlled news media largely ignores protest , and spokeswoman for china 's foreign ministry claims that hong_kong is already democratic .
 european_union 's 10 new members will add 9 languages to its existing 11 . officials say problem of managing cacophony of tongues is far less daunting than having to silence any individual language . 191-member united_nations may tick along just fine with six languages , but in europe right of officials to work in their own languages is enshrined as democratic imperative .
 noah_feldman article on books on relationship between islam and the west discusses globalized islam : the search for a new ummah by olivier_roy , the war for muslim minds : islam and the west by gilles_kepel , unholy alliance . radical islam and the american left by david_horowitz , at the heart of terror : islam , jihadists , and america 's war on terrorism by monte_palmer and princess palmer and pakistan 's drift into extremism : allah , the army , and america 's war on terror by hassan_abbas .
 vivendi_universal_sa announces lower operating profits from its vivendi_universal_entertainment unit and decline in both revenue and operating income for universal music group days before it plans to accept formal bids for its american entertainment assets . vivendi , which uses french accounting standards , says it narrowed its net loss for first_quarter to 319 million euros , from 815 million euros year earlier . revenue fell to 6.2 billion euros in quarter_year_earlier .
 hartford_financial_services_group is nearly tripling its reserves to pay for potential claims for asbestos-related illnesses and deaths . will add $ 3.97 billion to its asbestos reserves , bringing them to $ 5.96 billion . increase will result in net loss of $ 1.39 billion for first quarter after reductions for taxes and coverage provided by other insurers . hopes to raise $ 1.85 billion through sale of stock , bonds and other securities and is cutting 1,500 jobs , or about 5 percent of its work force . is getting out of volatile business of reinsurance . chief executive ramani ayer comments .
 trial of suit by kirk_kerkorian , who was chrysler 's top shareholder at time of its 1998 combination with daimler-benz , charging deal was fraudulently labeled merger when it was actually envisioned by daimler as takeover , offers revealing glimpse into current state of daimlerchrysler and worldwide auto industry . daimler chairman jurgen_e_schrempp says his vision was to create global auto conglomerate beyond nationality , but daimlerchrysler 's board consists of 10 german auto executives and only one former chrysler executive .
 harry_phillips 3rd , new_york state regents board member , calls for appeals system that could allow students who fail regents exams to graduate from high school if they can demonstrate solid performance in their classes and other criteria , testimony at legislature 's joint_education_committee . education comr richard_p_mills , other regents and schools chancellor joel_i_klein of new_york_city testify in support of testing system . others disagree strongly .
 russia , france , germany , canada and other countries barred by pentagon from bidding for $ 18.6 billion worth of prime reconstruction contracts in iraq react angrily , saying move is all the more astonishing given recent appeals by washington for help in post-war iraq . russian defense min sergei_b_ivanov quickly rules out any write-off of iraq 's $ 120 billion debt .
 mongolia 's xaan bank , once stody government-run institution known as ag_bank , has been rebranded and privatized . american managers in three years have doubled bank 's deposits , to $ 40 million , doubled employees , to 12,650 , increased branch network by 40 percent , to 371 , and turned money loser into moneymaker . bank 's new owner hideo_sawada says he plans to open bank branches in china in three to five years . chief executive j peter_morrow comments .
 jon_asgeir_johannesson , president of baugur group , and partner ingibjorg palmadottir buy one of most expensive apartments ever sold in manhattan below 42nd street , triplex at 50 gramercy_park_north , for more than $ 24 million . condominium conversion work is halted at sheffield_on_west 57th street when city inspectors discover asbestos in ceiling material on five floors . attorney simon h forgette sells town house at 409 east 58th street to yossi zaga for $ 6.5 million and buys town_house at 217 east 61st street for more than $ 5 million .
 new_york_city , which will need 66,000 new classroom seats over next five years , is creating schools with unconventional look in unexpected places : old salami factory in bronx , defunct department store in harlem , warehouse on upper_east side and 13th floor of downtown skyscraper . school construction authority , once bloated and scandal-plagued bureaucracy , has help get rid of antiquated building rules that kept costs high and restricted architectural possibilities .
 decision by ontario_appeals_court to extend full marriage rights immediately to gay and lesbian couples appears to have given decisive impetus to efforts to make same-sex marriage a reality across canada . dozens of gay and lesbian couples rush to municipal buildings in toronto , ottawa and hamilton without waiting for decision by justice_min_martin_cauchon on whether he will appeal ontario court decision to supreme_court .
 bank_of_america 's acquisition of fleetboston_financial might fill out bank_of_america 's national branch network , but it will not fulfill acquirer 's wall street dreams . deal would still trail citigroup in businesses like investment banking and money management although deal wold_make_bank_of_america almost three times as big as citigroup . bank of america may have to make more acquisitions to move quickly into top ranks of those highly competitive but potentially lucrative financial services . bank_of_america chief executive kenneth_d_lewis has spoken of making his bank more of force in managing investments of affluent americans .
 prime min recep tayyip_erdogan says turkey will accept no affiliation with european_union short of full membership . rejects idea of conditional membership . says turkey has rewritten its laws and amended its constitution to conform to requirements set by european_union . turkey became candidate for full membership in 1999 . cyprus remains problem , although greece has endorsed turkish membership . union members will vote in december on whether turkey may begin formal entrance talks .
 federal reserve chairman alan_greenspan says interest rates should rise much more slowly that in past . greenspan , in may 14 letter to sen paul_s_sarbanes , says central_bank raised short-term rates fairly sharply when it moved to curb inflation in 1988 and 1994 , and more modestly in 1999 . stresses that past is no guide to future because consumer prices are climbing more slowly today and are likely to continue to do so .
 oil-rich kazakhstan is suffering growing pains . oil consortium recently halted long-planned $ 3.5 billion expansion at largest oil development project in kazakhstan , in standoff with government over terms of contract . us is investigating charges that kazakhstan 's pres nursultan_nazarbayev took bribes from american companies to award oil fields . disagreement , separate criminal probe and new toughness toward foreign investors have shown that kazakhstan is not as risk-free for investors as it likes to present itself . difficulties come in region that us has long said is central to its efforts to find alternatives to middle_east as source of oil . consortium , known as tengizchevroil , includes chevrontexaco , exxonmobil , lukarco of russia and kazakhstan 's kazmunaigaz .
 mayor gavin_newsom 's decision in february to open city hall to thousands of gay weddings is cited by democrats like sen dianne_feinstein as factor in pres bush 's relection because it energized conservative voters , playing into bush 's hands . newsom , with 80 percent approval rating in his city , says he has no apologies . photo . mass repr barney frank , himself gay , says he urged newsom to follow mass path of winning court approval first . blames ` spectacle weddings ' for success of constitutional amendments banning gay marriage in 11 states .
 florida legislature votes down two constitutional amendments sought by gov jeb_bush : one to reverse_state_supreme_court decision invalidating school vouchers and one to loosen strict limits on class size . six of senate 's 26 republicans join democrats in voting against class-size initiative , and four do same against voucher plan .
 $ 27 million public service campaign from governments of 50 states and district of columbia , puerto_rico and virgin_islands , paid for with settlement money from lawsuit against ford_motor_co , starts this week and is aimed at informing young men in particular about rollover risks of sport utility vehicles . ad agency bartle_bogle_hegarty developed campaign .
 gov george e pataki and mayor michael_r_bloomberg_select_leslie_koch , chief executive of fund for public schools , to be new president of corporation devoted to redeveloping governors island in new_york . city and state had great_plans_for_island when it was turned over to them in 2003 , but nothing has emerged . they are spending $ 10 million a year to maintain exisiting buildings and ferry slips .
 newly released government documents reveal that tensions between epa and white_house council on environmental quality over informing public about air safety after collapse of world trade center were likely greater than revealed in august report by epa . report found that council had language of news releases made less alarming in days after sept 11 . sen hillary_clinton has threatened to block michael_o_leavitt 's confirmation as epa chief unless white_house answers questions about report contents .
 white_house letter on how presidential campaign will interfere with pres bush 's summer vacation at crawford , tex , ranch . although advisers were split on how much time bush should take , karl rove 's opinion has apparently prevailed , as bush will spend only two weeks at ranch instead of four , as he has in previous years . plan is for bush to campaign vigorously immediately following democratic convention , trying to negate what republicans expect to be john_kerry 's post-convention bounce in polls .
 jamaica high school -lrb- nyc -rrb- basketball player mohammad_sarfaraz_hussain , born in pakistan but living in america for nearly 10 years , faces deportation after parents died just before earning their citizenship . has friends and family here in new_york and no one in pakistan , and feels more american than immigrant .
 claude_cassirer , 81-year-old retired photographer in san_diego , claims rightful ownership of camille_pissarro painting in thyssen-bornemisza museum in madrid , saying nazis seized work from his grandmother 's apartment in germany . spanish government insists that museum of legal owner and any claim should be made in courts . painting , rue st-honore , apre-midi , effet de pluie , may be worth as much as $ 6 million .
 richard_sandomir tv sports column discusses unique deal that requires four nba teams to pay former owners of now-defunct st_louis spirits 1/7 of their television revenue in perpetuity . former aba teams new jersey nets , indiana_pacers , san_antonio_spurs and denver nuggets made deal with spirits in lieu of nba absorbing team in 1975 , not knowing profits from television would reach such astronomic heights .
 article on flaming fire illustrated bible , internet database and multivolume book , conceived a year ago by event planner patrick_hambrecht and his wife , kate . young artists and musicians meet at cb 's 313 gallery , small bar and performance space in new_york 's east_village , where they drink , listen to music and illustrate bible verses . goal is to illustrate all 36,665 verses of king_james_bible .
 political memo says move by metropolitan_transportation_authority to open bidding for development rights of west side railyards to cablevision and others is stark reminder of how little help mayor michael_bloomberg is getting from gov george_pataki . says by inviting other bids mta raised serious questions about whether stadium would ever be built , and comes just as international_olympic_committee is preparing to visit new_york and assess its bid for 2012 summer games . press officers for bloomberg and pataki deny any problem between them .
 teams from universities , small companies , and some hobbyists will compete in contest sponsored by defense_advanced_research_project_agency , or darpa , to design robotic vehicles . winner , if there is one , will be first to traverse about 200 miles of rough desert terrain in less than 10 hours without assistance . darpa has been seeking robotic land vehicle for years .
 connecticut department of special revenue rejects plan by voluntown to hold raffle in which winner would not to have to pay property taxes for next year . first selectman gilbert_grimm says he hopes to begin selling tickets at $ 20 each on may 1 . state repr steven_mikutel counters that it would take action by legislature to approve raffle and that he may introduce bill next year .
 nathaniel_t_heatwole , 20-year-old college student , is charged with breaching airport security after having alerted authorities that he hid box cutters , bleach and matches on two southwest_airlines planes . fbi says heatwole claims he tucked items in ziploc bags and hid them under restroom sinks of two planes as test of airport security . they were reportedly undetected even after he sent e-mail messages to transportation_security_adm telling them what he had done . fbi says his messages told of six security lapses from feb to sept , 2003 .
 article on recent sightings of coyotes in new_york_city , including one that was seen on ice floe on frozen rockaway_inlet near breezy point . at least 20,000 coyotes are believed to live in state and parks department officials in bronx have tallied at least seven sightings and seven roadkills along bronx expressways since 1995 . exploits of lucky pierre , who led chase across central park in 1999 , recalled .
 jerome_m_hauer was part of gop presidential hopeful rudolph_w_giuliani 's inner circle as new_york_city 's first emergency management director , but they have parted ways . recently he has made unflattering comments about giuliani 's handling of sept 11 disaster , including challenging giuliani 's recollection that he had little role in placing city 's emergency command center at ill-fated world trade center . hauer does not disparage giuliani 's overall effort at emergency preparedness , but he offers rare view inside often-insular giuliani administration .
 brooklyn dist atty charles_j_hynes 's office is expected to present evidence to grand jury considering charges in fatal shooting of byron_hearst , unarmed man , by off-duty police officer shamik_walton . police say walton , who was collecting back rent , shot hearst three times during struggle , then left buidling before calling 911 . he has been placed on desk duty while matter is being investigated .
 article on plans for $ 200 million multi-media museum and entertainment complex co-sponsored by us_army and privately run army historical foundation that will be built in fairfax_county , va . skidmore , owings_&_merrill has been chosen to design 225,000-square - foot national museum of the united_states_army . museum will feature ` fully immersive environments ' designed to allow visitors to feel soldiers ' experiences on battle terrain .
 switzerland , with its 350 banks managing $ 2.3 trillion in private investments , has been trying to persuade outsiders that days of shady dealings with suitcases of cash and numbered accounts are over . report by paris-based financial_action_task_force on money laundering finds that only cook_islands , guatemala , indonesia , myanmar , nauru , nigeria and philippines qualify as ` non-cooperative ' in international efforts to block flow of illicit funds .
 rachel_donadio essay on change of editors for norton anthology of english literature from m h abrams , who spent 40 years as founding and general editor , to stephen_greenblatt , who is shakespeare scholar and harvard professor . although assailed by some for being too canonical , norton anthology has prevailed as text widely used in english literature survey courses in large part because of abrams 's editing talents that allowed 13 centuries of literature to fit into 6,000 pages . abrams career outlined .
 sen hillary_rodham_clinton , addressing annual munich conference on security policy , advocates direct nato role to stop killing in darfur region of sudan , including logistical , communication and transportation support . her speech is collaborative effort . she sought input from , among others , former clinton administration officials richard_c_holbrooke and samuel_r_berger .
 north_carolina_petitions_environmental_protection_agency to crack down on pollution that it says is seeping across its borders from power plants in 13 other states . if petition works , states as far away as michigan would have to cut power plant pollution by more than 50 percent , while states nearer north_carolina would face reductions of 70 percent to 80 percent .
 parks department is reviewing lease of point yacht club , ` blue-collar , ' largely hispanic yacht_club on east_river in bronx . wants property to become full-service marina with boat slips and new pier -- a far leap from rickety wooden walkway and moorings now in use . may invite developers to operate marina after renovating it , which could cost upward of $ 1 million . club currently pays city $ 1,300 a month in rent . hotos .
 court of arbitration for sport suspends sprinter jerome_young for two years for steroid use in 1999 and recommends that 2000 olympic gold medal for 4x400-meter relay race be taken away . ruling comes after usa_track_&_field_appeal_board exonerated him in 2000 , allowing him to race at olympics . international_association_of_athletics_federations will determine further disciplinary action .
 un has uncovered 150 allegations of sexual abuse committed by peacekeepers stationed in congo , many of them in bunia where population has suffered horrendous atrocities committed by local fighters . raping of women and girls is common tactic in war raging in congo 's eastern jungles involving numerous militia groups . unicef program has treated 2,000 victims of sexual violence in bunia in recent months . sec gen kofi_annan says there is clear evidence that acts of gross misconduct have taken place in un mission in congo .
 jenny_anderson insider column on study by sam_kischner and ron_panzier for mayer_&_hoffman_capital advisors that has found that new hedge fund managers outperformed morgan_stanley_capital_international_noninvestable equal-weighted hedge fund index by more than 45 percent and more than doubled returns of credit_suisse_/_tremont_investable index during two-year period .
 people 's bank of china , china 's central bank , will raise by 63-hundredths of percentage point the interest rate it charges to banks for loans without collateral for maturities of up to one year . will raise rate for 20-day loan to 3.33 percent from 2.7 percent and also raise interest rate it charges for rediscounting to 3.24 percent from 2.97 percent . says state_council , china 's cabinet , has given it greater flexibility in setting interest rates that it charges to banks .
 peter_applebome , in our towns column , discusses the disparity in sentencing of former connecticut gov john_g_rowland and former hudson_county , nj , exec robert_c_janiszewski . notes that judge_peter_c_dorsey_sentenced_rowland , who pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit tax fraud and accepting $ 107,000 in unreported gratuities , to only a year and day in prison , and judge_joel_a_pisano sentenced janiszewski , who pleaded guilty to evading taxes and taking over $ 100,000 in bribes , to 41 months in prison .
 charles_g_taylor , former president of liberia , disappears two days after nigerian government says it will end his asylum and allow him to face indictment by international_court . taylor had been living in exile in sierra leone seaside villa and his disappearance is embarrassment for nigerian pres olusegun_obasanjo . human rights advocates and politicians criticize obasanjo for failing to arrest taylor despite his long history of eluding capture .
 benton_harbor , mich , is trying to recover two months after riot erupted after motorcyclist was killed in police chase . two nights of violence left 12 buildings torched in city , which is 95 percent black and 40 percent below poverty line . riots also brought announcement of $ 500,000 from state to create summer jobs for teenagers , renovation by whirlpool_corp of decades-empty department store , governor 's task force and broad citizens ' group meeting weekly to tackle problems .
 the week column . suffolk county executive steve_levy approves nearly $ 400,000 for continuing research into possible causes of red and brown tides that have devastated shellfish populations in peconic bays . commits $ 1.8 million toward restocking peconics scallop population . officials in brookhaven , ny , reacting to complaints from neighbors , clear two illegal camps in wooded areas of farmingville apparently set up by immigrant day laborers . struggling gubernatorial campaign of thomas_suozzi suffers significant setback when judith_jacobs , one of his closest allies , endorses attorney general eliot_spitzer .
 tornado tears across southwestern indiana and northern_kentucky , killing at least 22 people , most of them in mobile home park near evansville , ind , and cutting path of destruction 20 miles long . twister hits at 2 am , catching people off guard and giving them little or no time to flee . hundreds are injured . officials in indiana fear casualty count could rise as searchers check hundreds of houses and mobile homes . it is deadliest tornado to strike united_states in several years .
 article on resurgence of northrup_grumman 's presence on long_island with awarding of $ 1.9 billion contract to upgrade navy 's e-2c hawkeye radar plane and airborne command post . company is expected to add 800 jobs in bethpage , boosting its long_island payroll by nearly 50 percent . company 's earlier decline , when grumman , republic and other manufacturers moved operations to southern_california and elsewhere , recalled .
 suicide attacks and armed assaults in central and northern iraq leave at least 19 iraqis dead and 60 wounded . photo . abu musab_al-zarqawi ` s network claims responsibility for two car bombs near interior_ministry and also links visit of deputy sec robert_zoellick . ansar al sunna claims responsibility for kirkuk attack . kidnapped american contractor jeff_ake appears in videotape .
 article on fascination with new_york_city among suburban new jersey teenagers . fair lawn teen dave_asaro-berman and his friends comment on their frequent jaunts into city . novelists tom_perrotta , who grew up in garwood and rick_moody , who spent part of his youth in darien , conn and later lived in hoboken , comment on attachments to city .
 tom_zeller jr column on agreement by scott_richter , prolific junk e-mail operator , to pay microsoft_corp $ 7 million to settle antispam lawsuit and america online 's sweepstakes of assets seized in its legal settlements with spammers . says that while there are signs that spam may be leveling off , steve_linford of british antispam organization spamhaus predicts that spam will remain a problem in spite of lawsuits and filtering technology . cartoon .
 tom_mueller profile of noah_charney 27-year-old american completing his doctorate at cambridge_university on use of art history , combined with more conventional tools of criminology , psychology and deductive logic , to help solve modern-day art thefts and to prevent future art crimes . his primary interest is understanding motivation and mentality of art criminals and applying techniques of criminal profiling to art theft . gives his theories about who was behind 1990 robbery of isabella_stewart_gardner museum in boston , 2004 theft of edvard_munch 's scream from munch_museum in oslo and 2005 theft of a henry_moore sculpture from late artist 's home in hertfordshire , eng .
 fifth article in series american dreamers : the lure of las_vegas relates graciela_diaz 's rise from illegal mexican migrant to wife , mother and middle-class homeowner who earns $ 40,000 a year as unionized waitress in luxor hotel . former seamstress , who met husband in los_angeles sweatshop , has thrived in booming economy of gambling mecca , advancing herself from busing tables by attending las_vegas_culinary_training_academy , co-sponsored by union and hotel-casino industry .
 seamy suburban underworld of drug dealing , theft and violence is depicted as suffolk_county , new_york , court hears martin_tankleff 's bid to overturn 1990 conviction for murdering his parents in 1988 when he was 17 . tankleff relatives point to jerard_steuerman , who argued over $ 500,000 business debt to seymour_tankleff and was at home night of kilings for high-stakes poker game . say arlene_tankleff was afraid of steuerman , who fled to california and was brought back as prosecution witness . photo . testimony about steuerman 's son 's cocaine dealings at bagel stores and testimony from criminals also quoted .
 act , which administers one of major college admissions tests , reports that only quarter of high school students who take full set of college prepatory courses -- four years of english and three each of mathematics , science and social studies -- - are well prepared for college . says that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas and that another 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them .
 article profiles broadway composer john_kander , whose sole writing partner for 42 years fred ebb died in 2004 . after period of despair and indecision , kander decided to finish shows they had been working on . musical curtains opened in los_angeles this month and is heading for broadway . kander and ebb 's career and kander 's view of writing alone discussed .
 alexander_olch , former student of late documentary filmmaker richard_p_rogers , is collaborating with rogers 's widow susan_meiselas on filmmaker 's unfinished autobiographical film windmill . meiselas and olch found 150 hours of film taken over 40 years on rogers 's computer after his death and are weaving together film that will star actor wallace_shawn_as_rogers and cynthia_nixon as meiselas .
 wal-mart is upgrading a lot of its merchandise , while trying to maintain loyalty of its core customer -- woman who is struggling to provide for herself and her family . says it expects its earnings for quarter that ends in april to be close to low end of its estimates of 56 cents to 58 cents a share . sales growth at stores open at least year may be unchanged or rise as much as 2 percent in april .
 highlands region , which stretches from connecticut through new_york , new jersey and pennsylvania , is under congressional consideration to be designated first national stewardship area . land is desirable to both conservationists and developers , who are wrangling over issues of wildlife , water , and needs for urban expansion and available housing . pros and cons of stewardship are given . use of geographical information systems or gis to map population density and forest coverage lend invaluable insight into trends and potential threats to environment . highlands coalition executive director tom_gilbert stresses need to act quickly , citing new_york-new jersey area could be entirely developed in 20 to 30 years with population increase of almost 50 % .
 florida is bouncing back after three hurricanes since mid-august . federal emergency management agency , or fema , has already promised at least $ 2 billion in aid to state and has dispensed over $ 200 million in cash to hundreds of thousands of victims , along with another $ 100 million in housing aid . early estimates suggest total losses from three storms could reach as high as $ 45 billion to $ 50 billion , with as much as $ 26 billion of that covered by insurance claims .
 gays in canada seem to be having second thoughts about marriage . series of canadian provincial court rulings in last two years have made same-sex marriage legal for up to 85 percent of population . only estimated 4,500 couples -- up to quarter of them from us and other countries -- have tied knot in canada since first ruling .
 sec_of_state_condoleezza_rice seeks to minimize any sense of division within bush administration over iran after mohamed_elbaradei , head of international_atomic_energy_agency , delivers warning against what he calls ` new crazies ' pushing for military action against tehran . senior state dept officials are furious over reports that members of vice pres dick_cheney 's staff have told others that cheney is looking for ways to persuade pres bush to confront iran militarily .
 sec_condoleezza_rice plans to press pres pervez musharraf of pakistan for more information on how rogue scientist a q khan helped iran in its effort to develop nuclear weapon . photo of rice arriving in india on first stop of six-nation tour of asia . us officials believe pakistan has not fully disclosed information about khan 's dealings . rice will also take up indian and pakistani wish to buy jet fighter planes from us . visit to japan , south_korea and china will cover strategies for persuading north_korea to rejoin nuclear disarmament talks . rice says she hopes china 's new law authorizing attack on taiwan if it declares independence will dissuade europe from lifting embargo on china weapons sales .
 royal dutch / shell revises its statement for oil and gas reserves downward by 20 percent , 3.9 billion barrels , after reviewing several extraction projects previously considered to be ` proven ' . projects in nigeria and australia account for about 50 percent of reduction in proven reserves . company maintains that reduction will have no ` material effect ' on company 's financial statements .
 anthony_casso , luchese family underboss , in 1994 told police that corrupt detectives stephen_caracappa and louis_eppolito had taken part in 1990 murder of gambino captain edward lino in brooklyn . investigation stalled , and 11 years of silence followed . it was broken with recent indictment of caracappa and eppolito , now retired , who are accused of being paid killers for mob and taking part in at least eight murders , most when they were still on force .
 favorite pastime of new_york conventioneers at republican national convention involved watching gov george_e_pataki and former new_york_city mayor rudolph_w_giuliani laying groundwork for possible presidential bids in 2008 . though they graciously praised each other and even dined together , there is no escaping suspicion that these two men , who have had complicated relationship for decade , may be on collision course .
 article on stanley_kramer 's 1948 movie so this is new_york , satire of city life that previewed in midwest , was panned by critics and made brief appearance in theater in far rockaway , queens . copy of film that had been donated to university_of_california at los_angeles is being screened at tribeca film festival .
 harvard_university plans to name drew gilpin_faust , historian of civil war south , to be first female president in its 371-year history . her selection by search_committee , if ratified as expected by board of overseers , would make harvard fourth ivy_league_university to name woman as president . it comes two years after lawrence_h_summers , then president , set off storm by suggesting that lack of intrinsic aptitude could help explain why fewer women than men reach top ranks of science and math in universities . faust is dean of radcliffe_institute_of_advanced_study . her photo .
 defense_department , despite formal protest by syria and over objections of state_department and american military officers in iraq , reportedly delays release of five syrian border guards wounded in us attack on june 18 on iraqi convoy near syrian border . bush administration officials attribute delay to civilians at pentagon who want guards to be questioned more extensively . pentagon spokesman larry_di_rita_declines to say how syrians were wounded or whether american troops crossed into syrian territory during attack .
 explorer alejandro_malaspina has been relatively unknown until recent release of journals first published by naval museum in madrid and then translated into english in book the malaspina expedition 1789-1794 . voyage 's purpose was to inspect spanish territories , make new hydrographic charts and gather information on environment and people . political changes in spain during his five-year scientific expedition led to his imprisonment on his return to spain and later he was exiled to native italy . documents , including 300 journals , 450 notebooks and 183 charts , were impounded and forgotten until recently .
 upstate new_york , like much of rural america , is aging rapidly , and that aging comes with its own economic and social problems . but consequences have been particularly tough for upstate new_york , because of state 's extensive programs under medicaid and its unusual requirement that local governments pay quarter of cost of most of them . people 65 and over make up ever-larger portion of population of upstate_new_york . brookings institution study finds that 14 percent of people living in upstate_new_york counties are 65 or older .
 prime min tony_blair 's tough talk on iraq and steadfast loyalty to pres bush have gained him invitation to washington this crucial week , but they have cost him popularity at home and hard-won influence in europe . polls in britain find majority of public questioning his aggressive posture against iraq and faulting him for being too subservient to us . britons also accuse him of becoming distracted from problems that affect their daily lives . he has sent 26,000 troops to persian_gulf . he continues to argue for need to disarm saddam_hussein and to limit additional inspection time before military action might be taken to weeks rather than months .
 lawyer for steven_kurtz , art professor at university_of_buffalo , and members of art collective he founded protest fbi investigation of their use of bacteria in their art . suspect agency will try to show kurtz violated patriot act . kurtz 's wife died suddenly in their home in buffalo on may 11 , and paramedic noticed laboratory equipment in house . collective members say they worked with microbiology lab to create transgenic e coli that was completely harmless in order to demystify process of genetic engineering and redirect concerns toward political implications of research .
 louis_lamonica jr , pastor of defunct hosanna_church in ponchatoula , la , is jailed on charges of sexually abusing perhaps two dozen children and mutilating cats for satanic rituals . church had nearly 1,000 worshipers under lamonica 's father , beloved preacher , but only 10 to 15 by time it closed in 2003 as result of falling-out between lamonica and his family . nine of those last congregants have also been arrested .
 mexico breaks with longstanding practice and extradites 21 people , including four major drug traffickers , to us . move signals that pres felipe_calderon is serious about cooperating with us to dismantle cartels . osiel cardenas_guillen is under indictment in texas for marijuana trafficking and threatening to kill three law enforcement agents . ismael and gilberto_higuera_guerrero and hector_palma_salazar face racketeering and drug trafficking charges in california .
 affluent portland suburb of hillsboro becomes first of 84 oregon_school districts to close early for summer for lack of money . early closings , spurred by 10 percent cut in state school aid , force thousands of parents to scramble for emergency child care and hundreds of teachers to seek temporary jobs . at least some students complain about being shortchanged .
 white_house and sec_colin_l_powell scrambled to present united_front_on_iraq war day after powell said he was unsure he would have recommended invasion had he known saddam_hussein had not stockpiled banned arms . powell , in comments coordinated with white_house , says pres bush made right decision . remarks highlight contrast between his sometimes measured support for war and full-throated justifications offered by vice pres dick_cheney and sec donald_rumsfeld .
 new_york_city host_committee_for_republican_national_convention seeks to raise record $ 64 million , effectively signaling end to efforts to publicly finance conventions . has already gotten tens of millions in contributions and commitments . major contributors include pfizer and citigroup and individuals like mayor michael_r_bloomberg and david_rockefeller , who each gave $ 5 million . campaign finance reform has made conventions chief way for corporations to make large contributions to organizations benefiting political parties . partial list of donors .
 special elections to new_york state assembly are won by matthew_titone , democrat , in 61st assembly district in staten_island , louis tobacco , republican , in borough 's 62nd assembly district , and michelle_schimel , democrat , in 16th assembly district in nassau_county . titone is first openly gay man to be elected to public office in staten_island .
 new_york_stock_exchange 's interim chairman john_s_reed agrees to reamin until april 2005 . decision underscores extent to which unresolved matter of controversial pay package of former chairman richard_a_grasso continues to tie reed to exchange . securities and exchange commission questions kenneth_g_langone , chairman of compensation committee during years that grasso received his highest pay deals , about his role in setting grasso 's pay .
 credit suisse group chief executive ossie_grubel and his chief lieutenant brady_w_dougan , in meeting of 900 credit suisse bankers in orlando , fla , try to sell bankers on another turnaround plan after turbulent four years in which credit_suisse first boston became perhaps its most dysfunctional major investment bank . plan is to integrate new_york investment bank more closely with its parent in zurich . grubel does not rule out dropping first boston name , though he says it is safe for now .
 stock mutual funds turn in ` normal ' performance in 2004 , with average general domestic stock fund returning 11.9 percent for year , compared with 10.4 percent that stocks have gained annually , on average , dating back to 1926 . 2004 returns , though average , are viewed by many people as major victory for market , which had to weather many uncertainties during year , including iraq war , presidential election , rising interest rates , high oil prices and slowing corporate earnings growth .
 mel_karmazin resigns as president and chief operating officer of viacom_inc . tom_freston , chairman and chief executive of viacom 's mtv_networks , and leslie_moonves , chairman of viacom 's cbs_inc , are named co-presidents . two executives find themselves in competition to succeed sumner_redstone , who says he will step down as chief executive in three years . karmazin , who reportedly decided to quit after learning that he had been excluded from short list of candidates to be next chief executive , will receive severance package of $ 30 million , about balance of his contract . his contract did not have any noncompete clauses , so he is free to work for competing companies .
 new_york gov george_pataki 's proposed budget gives scant help to new_york_city . governor refuses to endorse commuter tax . mayor michael_bloomberg was looking for $ 1.7 billion in state aid to close its deficit , but help falls hundreds of millions of dollars short of that goal , raising possibility of more cuts and higher taxes . part of what pataki promises is federal money that was already factored into city 's expections .
 reduced band of texas democrats who fled republican-controlled state_senate more than six weeks ago are back home for showdown next week in austin . group lost its quorum-busting power when crucial 11th member defected last week . group vows to fight plan sought by gov rick_perry and other republicans to redraw congressional districts .
 city council report finds that local conditional release commission most likely violated new_york state law by voting without enough of its members present to release former state sen guy j velella and co-defendant hector del toro from jail . report throws into question legality of velella 's release three months into one-year sentence . also provides most detailed picture yet of workings of commission , mayoral-appointed panel that has operated with little oversight for 15 years . its decision to release velella has prompted calls that it be abolished and led to departure of chmn raul_russi and commission members amy_ianora , irene_prager and jeanne_hammock .
 op-ed article by manhattan_institute_empire_center for new_york state policy director e j mcmahon on pork-barrel ` member items ' vetoed from budget by new_york gov george_pataki . calls on senate majority leader joseph_bruno and minority leader david_patterson to work toward release of details of member items from secret memos before they are voted on .
 wal-mart ` s chief executive h lee_scott_jr takes offensive against critics who have sought to block stores in new_york , los_angeles and chicago , insisting that company is good for consumers and good for its 1.3 million american employees . says wal-mart offers good , stable jobs , noting that when it opens store , more than 3,000 people often apply for 300 jobs . critics complain that wal-mart ` s average wage of $ 9.68 an hour is too low to support a family and that only half of its workers receive health insurance from company .
 top official at boston univ says that daniel_s_goldin , who agreed to walk away from presidency of college day before he was to take over , had made it clear that he intended to dismantle university 's leadership , replacing many longtime deans and administrators . says trustees , who had unanimously chosen goldin , began to reconsider , and at emergency meeting they agreed to pay goldin $ 1.8 million to forfeit presidency . board has named as interim president dr aram_v_chobanian , dean of medical school .
 frank rich op-ed column says plans for lower manhattan are confusing because architects were set the impossible task of doing three things at once : acknowledging horror of sept 11 , rebuilding 10 million square feet of office space for which there is no discernible market and renewing lower manhattan . says this imperative is result of politically correct thinking that now surrounds all aspects of sept 11 . drawing . corrections to rich 's dec 7 column on pres bush and war on terrorism and dec 21 column on fall of sen trent_lott .
 labor department reports that job growth ground nearly to halt in july , raising new concerns about economy 's strength and reshaping political debate over its performance less than three_months_before_election_day . employers added just 32,000 jobs in july , small fraction of what forecasters had expected and far below robust gains in employment earlier in year . labor department says economy added 286,000 jobs in may and june , 61,000 fewer than reported . unemployment rate fell to 5.5 percent in july , from 5.6 percent in june .
 alessandra stanley comments on controversies involving television correspondents peter_arnett and geraldo_rivera reporting from iraq . contends responsibility lies with news executives who relied on reporters with reputations for being unreliable . arnett reported for nbc and national geographic explorer and rivera for fox . pentagon is pressuring fox news to withdraw rivera from iraq .
 guatemala has become hotbed of language study for americans who want to learn spanish , in part because its inhabitants ' reputation for speaking in clear , easily understandable accent and partly because of its extremely low cost . it is home to scores of schools , many of them based in antigua . for as little as $ 150 per week , foreigners can receive six hours of private language instruction for five days a week . accommodations with local family providing three home-cooked meals a day are generally included in price .
 clyde_haberman nyc column on bloomsday , july 16,1904 , day leopold_bloom made his odyssey through dublin in james_joyuce 's novel ulysses , real-life horror of burning of general slocum , excursion steamer that caught fire as it entered waters of hell gate killing 1,021 as noted in ulysses 's wandering rocks episode and reopening of coliseum books on west 42d street opposite bryant park .
 german software company sap looks stronger after disclosing that it had considered being acquired by microsoft . announcement of talks by sap and microsoft was intended to pre-empt probable disclosure dujring antitrust trial for oracle_corp 's hostile bid for peoplesoft . sap is biggest gainer and most actively traded stock on frankfurt_exchange , rising 2.5 percent . sap spokesman herbert_heitmann says company is not for sale -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 israeli government , unable to stop hezbollah from firing hundreds of deadly katyusha rockets into north every day , will temporarily relocate thousands of residents who are unable to leave on their own . most of kiryat_shmona 's 25,000 people have already left and those remaining have been driven underground or behind reinforced concrete . about 500 leave for respite after four weeks in shelters . photo . military is frustrated by inability to stop barrages as it fights pieched battles with hezbollahwithin few miles of lebanese border .
 sale of chrysler to cerberus_capital_management represents potentially invigorating emancipation for daimler . daimler can look ahead to what analysts generally agree is promising future as stand-alone maker of trucks and luxury cars . price of freedom for soon-to-be-renamed daimler_ag is $ 677 million in cash -- out-of-pocket outlay in $ 7.4 billion transaction -- for cerberus to take chrysler off its hands . it is also shedding nearly $ 18 billion in health care and pension liabilities . cerberus chairman john w snow goes to stuttgart to drum up excitement about chrysler 's future and to reassure managers and workers that investment firm is not going to turn chrysler inside out .
 profile of matthew_onek , son of new_york_city schools chancellor joel_i_klein 's former law partner . onek is senior counselor to klein and widely viewed as his most trusted aide and overseer of complex planning process for start of school next fall . is one of more than 24 sharp young aides with diverse backgrounds and talents enlisted by klein to reshape school system , replacing longtime administrators who have retired . brief profiles of nine aides .
 harvard_university is coming under fire from some donors and others for paying jack_r_meyer , who oversees its $ 19.3 billion endowment , $ 6.9 million . dr terry_bennett , who graduated from harvard_medical_school in 1964 , says he will cease contributing and is encouraging other alumni to follow suit . university says it is not concerned about bennett 's action , but is concerned about irs announcement that it will require nonprofit organizations to justify compensation levels . harvard says it is paying going rate for top-flight money managers and is following wall street 's practice of paying majority of compensation in performance bonuses . even supportive alumni say issue opens harvard to criticism . similar salary arrangements for money managers at yale and university_of_texas noted .
 new_york_city and state officials are putting together more than $ 370 million in tax-exempt funding for multi-faceted project in lower manhattan . one-million-square building designed by frank_gehry for forest city ratner would include 330,000 square feet for pace university and 25,000-square - foot ambulatory care unit for nyu_downtown_hospital . photo . apartment tower and stores also included . state liberty_development_corp to issue bonds . deputy mayor daniel_doctoroff explains complex deal .
 bucolic ten-mile stretch of interstate 270 around columbus , ohio , is focus of deep anxiety as police report ballistics tests show that four shots , three into vehicles and one into elementary school , came from same gun . photo . one killed car passenger gail_knisley . police also believe at least eight other shots into vehicles traveling in area were fired by same person or group .
 article on asbury_park , faded new jersey resort town whose residents and officials are pinning hopes on much-touted redevelopment . real estate prices have increased 25 percent annually for last few years , new restaurants and antique shops have opened along cookman avenue downtown and waterfront redevelopment promises thousands of new homes and close to half-million square feet of new commercial space . muggings and gang skirmishes , however , do not appear to be lessening .
 calvin_borel , jockey who rode street sense to victory in kentucky derby , learned to ride as 8-year-old tied to saddle in match races in louisiana . borel , 40 , left school before finishing eighth grade to pursue career in racing . his brother cecil , older by 13 years and trainer , became loving taskmaster for advanced education in horsemanship . it is family tradition in acadiana , region known for some of finest jockeys .
 most american mosques import their clerics from overseas , but foreign clerics are not prepared to help american muslims live with their faith without succumbing to american materialism or islamic extremism . american converts imam zaid_shakir and sheik_hamza yusuf spent years being mentored in middle_east and north_africa by formidable muslim scholars , and are using their intellectual clout to create zaytuna_institute , first islamic_seminary in united_states , to train new generation of imams and scholars who can reconcile islam and american culture .
 david a damon jr gets exemption from state 's antismoking law for his bar in cicero , ny , by demonstrating that bar has separate room for smoking and that his business is off 40 percent since law took effect . trade group believes bar , damons , is first in state to receive waiver and says up to 10 percent of state 's 16,000 bars and restaurants could receive some kind of exemption . waiver applications are increasing .
 news analysis suggests that war over who did what in vietnam has inflicted more wounds on candidate who saw combat , john_kerry , than on george_bush , who did not . says questions about documents broadcast by cbs have largely innoculated bush , who has for years faced questions about his national guard record . kerry also thrust his decorated record to center of candidacy . new york times / cbs_news poll , before questions about cbs_documents , shows just 20 percent of voters believe bush tells whole truth about his service while 29 percent said kerry is fully honest about his .
 bush administration releases eradication estimates showing solid progress in wiping out coca crops in andean region . some officials are predicting that by end of this year there will be no significant plantations of mature plants to feed colombia 's cocaine production . price of progress has been high . some american officials involved in aerial spraying programs in colombia , peru and bolivia warn that pilots are increasingly vulnerable to attacks by well-armed guerrillas . note downing of four planes and death of one pilot in colombia last_year . colombia accounts for 80 percent of cocaine reaching united_states . administration officials acknowledge that supply of cocaine has been so vast for so long that it is unlikely there will be discernible effect on american streets for some time to come .
 joseph_palladino of woodbridge -lrb- nj -rrb- kills wife donna_beckmann_palladino and mother-in-law mary_jane_beckmann in south amboy -lrb- nj -rrb- , then jumps off bridge in perth amboy -lrb- nj -rrb- committing suicide . women 's bodies are found in beckmann 's home in south_amboy . palladino was served with restraining order for threatening wife four days earlier . confesses crime to friend in phone call before killing himself .
 cities with well-known museums that draw crowds of tourists and residents sometimes have less familiar ones that provide sense of discovery and opportunity to see art in relative tranquillity . among them are michael c carlos museum in atlanta , rosenbach museum and library in philadelphia , arthur m sackler_museum in cambridge , mass , and norton museum of art in west_palm_beach , fla .
 us sen hillary_rodham_clinton , democrat , and republican rep peter_t_king hold press conference to criticize bush administration for cutting new_york_city 's antiterrorism funding . new_york 's funding is down sharply in 2006 . clinton challenges pres bush to take responsibility for actions . mayor michael_r_bloomberg also criticizes reductions .
 jury selection in case of mohammed ali_hassan_al-moayad , yemeni sheik accused of financing terrorism , took over two weeks and is completed on jan 26 . pool of 270 potential jurors filled out questionnaires on jan 10 that asked if they could render impartial verdict notwithstanding events of sept 11 . one-third said they would not be able to judge case fairly .
 us district judge_barbara m g lynn rejects proposed $ 6 million settlement of securities class-action suit filed by investors against halliburton_co . raises concerns about manner in which settlement was reached and its terms . neil_rothstein , partner at scott_&_scott , who represents lead plaintiff , archdiocese of milwaukee supporting fund , agrees with lynn 's ruling .
 new_york_state_education officials tell new_york_city schools chancellor joel_i_klein that michele_cahill , his choice for deputy chancellor , will not be approved by state , prompting him to name high-ranking superintendent carmen_farina acting deputy chancellor instead . farina replaces diana_lam , who resigned when accused of making inappropriate hiring choices . some in new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg camp worry that latest slam against klein will reflect poorly on bloomberg .
 new_york_city schools chancellor joel_i_klein defends himself and system 's top lawyer , chad_vignola , over their roles and those of other education officials in hiring peter_plattes , husband of department 's deputy chancellor , diana_lam . lam was forced to resign following release of report that also concluded that vignola had tried to cover up plattes 's hiring by saying plattes was volunteer , even though he was paid supervisor . klein says that he knew nothing about lam 's efforts to get plattes hired until third_week in july , shortly before reporters began inquiry on situation . klein appoints michele_cahill as acting deputy chancellor to replace lam .
 john_kerry accuses pres bush of dragging his feet in bolstering nation 's defenses against terrorism , campaign rally in grand rapids , mich . says he should call special session of congress to adopt recommendations of 9/11 panel . says bush has encouraged recruitment of terrorists by alienating moderates in muslim world , prompting bush to say kerry has ` fundamental misunderstanding of the war on terror ' . kerry 's foreign policy adviser james_p_rubin says bush has flip-flopped on national intelligence director 's post , using term that bush-cheney campaign has tried to affix to kerry .
 william_h_miller , manager of legg_mason value trust fund , is down to wire on his 13-year streak for his fund to beat standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index . miller moves out ahead of s & p by 1.44 percentage points as of dec 21 . morningstar says it knows of no other fund manager who has beat s & p 500 for 13 years , as miller has done .
 thomson_corp acquires reuters_group , global news and financial_data_service , for about $ 17.2 billion . new company , which will be called thomson-reuters , will own 34 percent of market for financial data , putting thomson in direct competition with bloomberg_lp , especially in selling data services , analytical and trading tools to wall street . richard j harrington will retire as head of reuters upon completion of deal . reuters ' current chief thomas_h_glocer , who will head new company , comments .
 general motors says it will pay fiat $ 2 billion so that it will not be forced to take over fiat 's ailing auto business . companies also dissolve industrial partnership in which they jointly produced engines and transmissions in europe and latin_america and jointly bought parts . say they will continue to cooperate in some areas . fiat chief executive sergio_marchionne and gm chairman rick_wagoner call settlement of fiat 's put option to sell auto business to gm fair . gm will return its 10 percent stake in fiat auto to fiat and take $ 840 million charge .
 supreme court agrees to decide whether constitution prohibits death penalty for crimes committed at age of 16 or 17 , and whether there is now national consensus against such executions . justices john_paul_stevens , david_souter , ruth_bader_ginsburg and stephen_breyer , in 2002 dissent , called such executions ` inconsistent with evolving standards of decency in a civilized society ' . court now responds to missouri ruling overturning death sentence of christopher_simmons , now 27 , who was convicted in 1993 of killing woman during break-in . missouri ruling relied heavily on supreme_court 's analysis two years ago rejecting execution of the mentally retarded . also noted that only texas , virginia and oklahoma have executed juveniles in last ten years .
 anthony_vitiello is released from prison after serving 9 years of what was to be 19 - to 54-year sentence when queens -lrb- nyc -rrb- district attorney richard_a_brown 's office admits it did not reveal criminal activity of witness john_mcdonnell , who testified against vitiello as supposed law-abiding citizen . days after vitiello 's conviction for attempted murder , mcdonnell was arrested for role in drug ring that had been under investigation for a year . vitiello will leave prison with same convictions he went in with formally attached to his record .
 chevron_texaco says its proven oil and natural gas reserves have risen 14 percent , over one billion barrels , in last six years , but its annual output during that time has fallen by almost 15 percent . chevron_texaco is not only big oil company whose production is falling despite rising reserves , though it has largest gap . consumers , economists and governments around world are wondering if oil supplies can keep pace with rising demand . production trends at industry 's publicly traded co mpanies are not promising . fears about supply shortfalls and rising demand have caused prices to climb about 20 percent in 2004 . proven reserves and output usually move in tandem . industry experts disagree why relationship has broken down . production trends at exxon_mobil , bp_plc and royal dutch / shell noted .
 intel_corp is moving ahead with new wireless technology that it says it believes can bring extremely high-speed internet access to american homes . sean_maloney , general manager of intel 's wireless division , says intel sees enormous promise in new technology known as wimax and will produce computer chips that use technology , speech on opening day of annual technical symposium sponsored by wireless_communications_association , san_jose , calif .
 small lebanese army unit along peaceful mediterranean coast retakes buildings that were occupied for years by syrian troops , erasing all signs of long occupation just 48 hours after syrians vanish . photo . turmoil continues in beirut as omar_karami is reappointed prime minister by pres emile_lahoud , also syrian supporter . opposition responds to pro-syrian hezbollah demonstration with call for rally on one-month anniversary of murder of former prime minister rafik_hariri .
 hundreds of people pack into bronx mosque to mourn march 7 fire victims , 10 members of extended family of immigrants from mali . dead include wife and four children of cabdriver mamadou_soumare , whose bodies will be flown back to mali for burial , and five children of moussa_magassa , who are buried in muslim cemetery in new jersey . some mourners are too sad to speak , others find solace in diversity of mourners united in grief .
 tradition known as ` power hour , ' in which 21-year-olds go to bar at midnight on their birthdays and try to down 21 shots before bar closes , can be deadly rite of passage . officials in several states have reported deaths from such drinking binges over last five years . texas and north_dakota are considering legislation that would declare that 21-year-olds reach legal drinking age not at stroke of midnight on their birthdays but seven or eight hours later in morning .
 peter_smith , highest-ranking american official at united_nations_educational , scientific and cultural orgn , resigns days before official audit reports that he violated unesco 's rules by granting seven contracts to american consulting firm without open bidding procedure . although no charges are being brought against smith , case represents embarrassment for us . which in late 2003 ended 19-year boycott of unesco amid pledges to accelerate reforms of organization .
 marine col matthew_bogdanos tells brooklyn federal court that joseph_braude , charged with smuggling antique relics from iraq , chose not to turn them over in baghdad during well-publicized amnesty , at time when iraqis were lining up to return pilfered items to national museum . reports 1,831 artifacts recovered , including one in new_york .
 two democratic leaders of congress say it would be premature for united_states to initiate armed conflict with iraq . one of them , sen tom_daschle , accuses pres bush of ` rushing to war ' without exhausting other remedies . other , rep nancy_pelosi , says bush needs to better explain his rationale for pre-emptive strike to american public and to world .
 pres bush and chancellor gerhard_schroder will meet in mainz , germany , on feb 23 . it will be bush 's first visit to germany since us went to war in iraq over protests of schroder and most germans . diplomats on both sides are calling for fresh start . 10,000 police officers , 100 bomb-sniffing dogs , several german fighter jets and army tank will be on hand to protect bush .
 california republican strategists are worried that their four main candidates in gubernatorial recall race , arnold_schwarzenegger , bill_simon jr , tom_mcclintock and peter_v_ueberroth , will cancel each other out , and throw race to democrat lt gov cruz_bustamante . democrats are focused on trying to stop recall , while positioning bustamante as successor , should gov gray davis lose recall portion of vote .
 researchers studying genetic signatures of siberians and american indians find evidence that first human migrations to new world from siberia probably occurred about 18,000 years ago . new evidence undermines arguments for colonization as much as 30,000 years ago , but reinforces archaeological findings as well as linguistic theory that most american languages belong to single family known as amerind . researchers detected change in dna sequence of siberian men 's y chromosomes that took place just before first of two migrations into the americas , second of which seems to have occurred some 8,000 years ago . findings are published in american journal of human genetics .
 jenny anderson_market_place_column_on_college_of_wooster , small , liberal arts college in ohio whose endowment has risen nearly 80 percent , to $ 250 million from $ 89 million in 1990 , through investments in hedge funds . trustee stewart_massey says higher endowment allows college to be more competitive with faculty salaries , increase financial aid and attract better students .
 article on playwright jeff_wanshel , who has been writing and rewriting fun in nuclear park for 20 years . wanshel , who has returned from los_angeles to house in larchmont , ny , that his father built , has won $ 4,000 grant from new_york_state_council on the arts to develop play , which has never been produced .
 new_york_city is able to save $ 1.5 million by creating super food factories to feed 6,900 inmates a day at rikers_island , almost double the 3,500 it was built to serve just three_years_ago . has been able to close five of nine correction dept kitchens and eliminate 75 jobs . budget cuts at rikers_island_reflect_bloomberg_administration 's vision of leaner , more efficient city government .
 gov rod_r_blagojevich_of_illinois , one of several leaders of state efforts to buy prescription drugs from abroad , says he has found at least 30,000 doses of flu vaccine in his conversations with overseas drug wholesalers and wants federal permission to buy them for elderly residents of his state . dr lester_m_crawford , acting commissioner of food_and_drug_administration , who will study blagojevich 's request , says his agency has received many leads on extra doses of flu vaccine and is already negotiating with three countries for five million additional doses .
 art dealer and book collector raymond_danowski donates collection of some 60,000 volumes and tens of thousands more of periodicals , posters , recordings and other items devoted to 20th-century poetry in english language to robert_w_woodruff_library at emory_university in atlanta , ga . collection , amassed over 30 years , includes rare and coveted volumes by many leading 20th-century poets .
 george w bush , who many predicted would continue his father 's policies of cautious realism in foreign policy , set off in aggressive new directions promoted by neoconservatives , but may be shifting back toward realpolitik of henry_kissinger in face of violence in iraq and investigation of sept 11 terrorist attacks . some of most senior figures who supported iraq invasion , including condoleezza_rice and vice pres cheney , are consulting more with republican apostles of realism like kissinger and br .
 slm , corp , also known as sallie_mae , agrees to be taken private for $ 25 billion in deal with private equity investors j c flowers and friedman_fleischer_&_lowe and banking giants_bank_of_america and j p morgan chase . buyers are investing $ 8.8 billion of their own money , with remaining $ 16.2 billion to be financed by debt .
 military intelligence unit that oversaw interrogations at abu_ghraib_prison in iraq had earlier been in charge of questioning at bagram_detention_center in afghanistan where two prisoners died in dec 2002 in incidents that are being investigated as homicides . unit 's work at bagram_center at time of deaths has emerged in interviews with former prisoners , military officials and from documents . two men arrested with one of prisoners who died in bagram tell of being tortured and sexually humiliated by american_jailers . their account is consistent with those of other former afghan prisoners and cited in reports by human rights officials . environment at bagram that men describe is similar in some ways to that of abu_ghraib , whose outlines are depicted in photographs and testimony . in iraq , at least three members of intelligence unit assigned to abu_ghraib have been quietly disciplined for conduct involving abuse of female iraqi prisoner .
 bob_herbert op-ed column scores bush administration for focusing on iraq_instead_of_al_qaeda after sept 11 , as discussed in richard_clarke 's book against all enemies . says it never pursued al qaeda with necessary tenacity and resources but rather tried to create false impression that iraq was involved in sept 11 attacks and that it was imminent threat to america . deplores ` unconscionable campaign ' of character assassination white_house is waging against clarke .
 three-judge panel of federal appeals court in washington hears arguments on whether two journalists should be jailed for refusing to name their confidential source to grand jury . seems to reject their argument , which is based on first amendment . journalists in case are matthew_cooper of time magazine and judith_miller of new_york_times . judges give strong indications that 1972 supreme court decision , branzburg v hayes , definitively and negatively answered question of whether first amendment provides reporters with any protection when they are called before grand jury and questioned about their confidential sources . floyd_abrams is lawyer representing miller and cooper . case reviewed .
 volkswagen reports preliminary net profit of 1.1 billion euros -lrb- $ 1.3 billion -rrb- in 2005 as it announces plan to eliminate up to 20,000 jobs . analysts expect bulk of cuts to come from voluntary measures including buyouts and retirements . volkswagen promised not to lay off workers until 2011 in 2004 agreement with its union .
 clyde_haberman column on rally for israel in manhattan where talk of peace is scarce . israeli and american politicians speak about eliminating palestinian militant groups , hezbollah and hamas . israel and its supporters are joined by lebanese christians who also seek end to arab militant groups in lebanon . small number of palestinian supporters voice support for palestinian cause , blaming israel for region 's troubles .
 op-ed article by republican pollster dick_wirthlin recalls helping devise ronald_reagan 's effective campaign in 1980 , when he asked americans if they were better off than they were four years earlier . says that if pres bush wishes to neutralize same question by john_kerry this year he must act before fall debates . suggests possible response that bush could make in republican national convention address .
 hilly kristal , founder of landmark bowery rock_club_cbgb , is at first optimistic then turns sour , saying he is sure his landlord , nonprofit bowery residents ' committee , wants him evicted when lease expires at end of month . kristal says he may move club to las_vegas . steven_van_zandt of e street band and the sopranos is leading celebrity volunteer effort to save club , which may include rally at washington_square_park .
 $ 60 million mixed-used development called fruitvale_village in oakland , calif , is playing catalytic role in one of city 's poorest neighborhoods . village already primed depressed and neglected area for new development before it was completed in may . village project grew out of spontaneous neighborhood protest in 1991 , when bay area rapid transit proposed building parking garage next to fruitvale station . local residents objected to garage plan , calling it bleak structure that would wall off neighborhood from commuter train .
 new_york_state_ethics_commission files civil charges against seven top officials of nassau_health_care_corp , alleging that they improperly accepted thousands of dollars for travel and related expenses from companies bidding for technology contract worth between $ 12 million and $ 24 million . among those charged is president and chief executive richard b turan .
 return of afghan refugees over last four years , and their ability to adapt and survive , has been one of real successes of international intervention and of pres hamid_karzai 's government . estimated 4.7 million refugees have flooded back from neighboring countries since fall_of_taliban , with assistance from united_naitons refugee agency or on their own . return of such huge numbers of refugees has gone well , but there have been some land disputes and complaints of illegal occupation . hundreds of families are living in tents .
 twin suicide bombers strike market jammed with people in hilla , iraq , killing at least 60 and wounding 150 . explosions are latest incidents in wash of violence that has swept over belt of shiite-controlled iraq starting about 30 miles south of baghdad and stretching about 70 miles farther south . american and iraqi officials cite increasing rivalries between armed shiite groups , possible meddling by neighboring countries and sectarian hatred between sunni and shiite arabs .
 senate , in stinging challenge to pres bush , approves , 51-47 , more than $ 97.5 billion spending measure for military operations in iraq and afghanistan , but orders troop withdrawals from iraq to start within 120 days . sets goal of removing most armed forces within year . democrats try to paint bush as ignoring public opinion , and prepare for veto fight .
 article on surflight theater production of rodgers and hart 's the boys from syracuse , based on shakespeare 's the comedy of errors , and shakespeare theater of new jersey 's production of tom_stoppard 's rosencrantz and guildenstern are dead , fracturing of shakespeare 's hamlet . directors steve_steiner and paul_mullins comment .
 walt disney_co 's board is focuses on sept_30_, 2006 , when contract expires for chief executive michael_d_eisner . board members in recent months have discussed what to do if and when eisner leaves , campaign to oust eisner by former directors_stanley p gold and roy e disney and unsolicited takeover offer by comcast_corp have not only underscored such discussions about eisner 's successor but expedited them .
 james_r_cantalupo , chairman and chief executive of mcdonald_'s_corp , dies unexpectedly , apparently of heart attack , while attending mcdonald 's convention in orlando , fla . board names charles_h_bell , mcdonald 's president and chief operating officer , as chief executive . andrew_j_mckenna , chairman and chief executive of schwarz_paper_co and board 's presiding director , is elected nonexecutive chairman .
 nation 's economy grew at annual rate of 4 percent in fourth_quarter_of 2003 , much slower than rate of 8.2 percent in third_quarter . though growth remained strong , it was weaker than many economists had been predicting . they say that most important indicators of future growth still point to strong year . consumer spending and business investment continued to grow and exports soared by 19.1 percent . analysts are much less certain about outlook on unemployment , with some predicting that job growth will remain modest in 2004 and fall well short of replacing 2.5 million jobs that disappeared during last three years .
 report on two long-awaited studies finds at least 4 percent of roman catholic priests have been involved in child sexual abuse , with 10,667 children allegedly victimized by 4,392 priests from 1950 to 2002 . says epidemic peaked with ordination class of 1970 , in which one of every 10 priests was eventually accused . cautions that numbers may be even greater , since figures depend on reporting by american bishops and many victims have never come forward . studies were commissioned by american_catholic_bishops in 2002 in face of accusations of cover-up in growing scandal . were conducted by john_jay_college_of_criminal_justice and team of prominent catholic lawyers , judges and other professionals . other findings detailed .
 nearly 8,000 workers at 350 subsidized day care centers in new_york_city have not had contract for four years and have not had raise since april 2000 . they are paid far less than workers in other unions . american_federation_of_state , county and municipal employees has been in negotiating stalemate with bloomberg_administration .
 two suicide car bombs explode within 15 minutes of each other in eastern_baghdad , killing at least 10 iraqi and american soldiers and wounding 15 others . in northeastern_baghdad , first day of declared cease-fire between american troops and militia_of_moktada_al-sadr passes with sadr 's aides saying he is seeking assurances from interim iraqi government that neither iraqi security forces nor american troops would arrest or prosecute people in his organization .
 article assesses san_francisco 's hot commercial real estate investment market . privately owned shorenstein_co has sold its interests in four properties over last_18_months as it evolves from local business to one that invests in commercial real estate throughout country . shorenstein 's role as city 's top landlord has been assumed by equity_office_partners . equity , however , has put five of its buildings in san_francisco on market .
 j d johnson building , former hotel on hudson_river in poughkeepsie , ny , is being renovated as modern 60,000-square - foot office building . structure 's newest incarnation reflects city 's recent efforts to rebuild not only its once-prosperous waterfront but also local economy that was dealt serious blow decade ago by downsizing at ibm , which had three plants in area . robert_dooley , who owns r_j_dooley_&_associates , purchased building for $ 800,000_two years ago from thomas_johnson , owner of plumbing supply company .
 first lt paul_rieckhoff of national_guard delivers democrats ' response to pres bush 's weekly radio address on first anniversary of ` mission accomplished ' speech . speaks in radio spot usually reserved for members of congress and political figures . says american efforts in iraq are hampered by poor planning and supply . rieckhoff 's call for change stands in contrast to pres bush decision to ` stay the course ' . describes patrolling in baghdad .
 brazil announces it will shoot down aircraft trafficking in illegal drugs . law permitting such action was passed in 1998 , but policy was never put into effect because of united_states ' concern that accidental downing of civilian planes could expose american government and companies to lawsuits . brazil 's northern amazon cooridor has increasingly become essential smuggling route . brazil tracked 4,128 ` unauthorized flights ' in 2003 . new policy will go into effect in late october .
 ewiiaapaayp band of kumeyaay_indians , which consists of seven adults and one child , seeks to build casino on its land near san_diego , but is opposed by 300-strong viejas band of kumeyaay_indians , whose nearby casino , not so close to san_diego , pulled in more than $ 200 million in 2002 . competition for money between large and small tribes is fierce throughout california and and could weaken their gambling lobby as gov gray davis seeks $ 1.5 billion a year in casino fees to help balance budget .
 judge john_gleason sentences kevin_walker of brooklyn to eight years in prison for bank fraud , two more than top end of recommended sentencing guidelines . cites what he calls walker 's ` unstoppable impulse to commit fraud ' . walker assumed identity of another man with same name as part of bank fraud scheme and , after being caught and convicted , assumed identity of yet another kevin_walker , this time one who was terminally ill , in effort to fake his own death .
 presidential campaign of 2008 shows first signs of intramural warfare . among democrats , campaign of sen hillary_rodham_clinton calls on sen barack_obama to denounce remark critical of bill and hillary_clinton that was made by david_geffen , former supporter of clintons who is now obama 's finance chair . on republican side , vice pres dick_cheney strikes back at criticism leveled against him and former defense_sec donald h rumsfeld by sen john_mccain , underscoring often tense relationship between white_house and mccain . earliest stages of presidential campaign have been relatively polite . latest events mark abrupt change of tone that exposes intensity of bad feeling bubbling just below surface in both parties .
 vice pres cheney , 62 , tells of meeting sec donald_rumsfeld , now 70 , in 1968 , when he applied unsuccessfully for job with wisconsin lawmaker who appeared to cheney to be ` arrogant young congressman ' . says rumsfeld probably thought him an ` airhead academic ' . comments while presenting old friend with hudson_institute_award . photo . cheney adds that he was later hired , just before rumsfeld developed his ` warm , fuzzy personality ' .
 federal district court judge_paul_g_cassell in salt lake_city questions sentencing guidelines that will send weldon h angelos to prison for 55 to 63 years for carrying gun during three marijuana sales . guidelines are set by united_states_sentencing_commission , but mandatory minimum sentences are enacted by congress . supreme court will decide in october whether to strike down sentencing guidelines , but some legislators are already signaling their preference for more mandatory minimums if guidelines are deemed unconstitutional .
 bush administration dismisses objections of sen charles_e_schumer of new_york and other local lawmakers in restating its approval of dubai ports world 's acquisition of peninsula_&_oriental_steam_navigation_co , british company that operates cruiseship terminal on west side of manhattan , one of biggest cargo terminals in new_york harbor and terminals in philadephia , baltimore and other big ports . schumer and lawmakers expressed concern that dubai ports could be infiltrated by terrorists with designs on exploiting vulnerability of american port .
 market place column on resurgent profitability of investment banks morgan_stanley and goldman_sachs . each reportedly nears tentative accord with securities_and_exchange_commission to pay $ 40 million to settle charges growing out of last stock market bubble . goldman reports second-quarter earnings rose 71 percent from 2003 period , to $ 1.2 billion . morgan_stanley reports earnings jumped 104 percent from 2003 quarter , also to $ 1.2 billion . both warn continued stock market weakness could hurt future earnings .
 planeloads of foreign aid are sent to help beslan , russia , but horror of terrorist siege of school evokes outpouring of sympathy across globe . people line up to sign condolence book at embassy in washington , about 150,000 people hold candlelight march through rome and world leaders like prime min tony_blair_express sorrow .
 cancer treatment canvaxin developed by serono and cancervax that has been under development for more than 40 years failed in first clinical trial in which it was compared with placebo . failure is blow to field of so-called cancer vaccines and to two companies . serono says it is ending testing of experimental psoriasis drug onercept after patient died . team of biogen_idec , genentech and roche says their drug rituxan , which is used to treat non-hodgkin ` s lymphoma , succeeded in late-stage clinical trial as treatment for rheumatoid arthritis .
 former getty_museum curator marion true is ordered to post $ 19,500 in bail pending trial on charges that she conspired to buy ancient funerary wreath that prosecutors sat was illegally removed from greek soil about 15 years ago . she and her lawyers have been given about three weeks to prepare for trial in greece . faces up to 10 years in prison if found guilty .
 jury in new_york_state_supreme_court -lrb- brooklyn -rrb- begins deliberation on 2004 shooting deaths of two new_york_city police officers by marlon_legere . officers robert_l_parker and patrick_h_rafferty were shot in front of legere 's home as he was attempting to drive away in mother 's car .
 pittsburgh pirates first baseman randall_simon , who tapped milwaukee_brewers mascot mandy_block , knocking her and other mascot over , is fined $ 432 for disorderly conduct . mascots will not press charges and say that simon 's actions were playful , not violent , but brewers executive vice president rick_schlesinger says incident was unacceptable and outrageous .
 article on recommendations made by nassau_county -lrb- ny -rrb- executive thomas_suozzi , after study of county 's extensive real estate holdings , to sell some holdings and relocate , expand or consolidate some government offices . plan , estimated at $ 200 million to $ 300 million , would virtually overhaul all buildings in county inventory . county officials hope to garner $ 100 million to $ 150 million from sale of county properties .
 government 's ambitious plans to vaccinate 500,000 civilian health care workers against smallpox gets under way as connecticut becomes first state to inoculate volunteers . only four doctors are vaccinated , after day full of confused reports that 8 to 20 members of state_health_department 's genesis team would get their shots on camera to inspire public confidence in vaccine .
 several members of bush re-election team talk about whether howard_dean , leading democratic candidate in recent polls , is another michael_s_dukakis , who badly lost 1988 presidential election to first pres bush . consensus is that dean is stronger , better organized candidate than dukakis , and that 2004 will be lot closer than 1988 , although nobody on bush team seems too concerned about outcome .
 trump hotels and casino resorts reports second-quarter loss of $ 17.6 million , compared with loss of $ 10 million a year earlier , and reduction in its cash reserves , which it needs to help reduce its $ 1.8 billion in debts , to $ 81.1 million from 124.3 million in first_quarter_of_year . is reportedly talking with bondholders about restructuring its debts . donald_j_trump , chief executive , blames rising gasoline prices and fact that gamblers are winning more money than usual .
 archdiocese of miami bars rev anthony_mercieca from functioning as priest anywhere in world after confirming that he was clergyman who mark_foley said molested him in 1960 's . mercieca , 69 , worked in south_florida for almost 40 years and remains under auspices of archdiocese . he is currently living in malta . mercieca photo .
 growing number of spenders 18 to 25 years old are increasingly using debit or credit cards , collectively known as payment cards , for nearly every on-the-go purchase . convenience and speed of such electronic transactions are drawing in users , but there are pitfalls . those who fail to keep track of their bank balances can quickly fall into financial danger zone . ending up in red can lead to costly overdraft fees . visa survey found that 40 percent of spenders 18 to 25 years old pay with plastic for purchases of $ 25 or less at least four times each week .
 cnooc_ltd chairman fu chengyu says profits , not politics , are behind his company 's $ 18.5 billion bid for unocal_corp . he faces delicate dual tasks as his company attempts china 's largest foreign acquisition . he must prove his political reliability to chinese leaders even as he works to persuade united_states that his company cares only about commerce . suspicions of political motives have already fueled opposition to deal in washington . cnooc 's proposal to buy unocal was ultimately approved by china 's cabinet . terms of financing reflect company 's elite status .
 florida 's gubernatorial primary races heat up as vote approaches . leading contenders for republican nomination , tom_gallagher and atty gen charlie_crist , scramble to prove that each is the most kindred to gov jeb bush . united_states_sugar_corp is playing incendiary role in democratic primary between rep jim_davis and state sen rod_smith , paying for fliers and advertisements directed at black and jewish voters that attack davis and promote smith .
 one of most coveted jobs in iraq does not yet exist : executioner for saddam hussein . death sentence against hussein is under review by appeals court , but hundreds of people have started lobbying prime minister 's office for position . hussein and two of his top associates , barzan_ibrahim_al-tikriti and awad_al-bandar , were sentenced to ` death by hanging ' on nov 5 for their involvement in killings of 148 men and boys after assassination attempt against him in dujail in 1982 . hussein 's execution must be carried out within 30 days if appeals court upholds death sentence .
 abortion rights supporters will hold rally in washington , dc , on april 25 . political landscape has changed since they converged on capitol 12 years ago . anti-abortion movement is more confident , more sophisticated and far more ensconced in government , with allies in control_of_house , senate and white_house . its legislative goals are incremental , careful and popular with americans who would oppose outright ban on abortion . anti-abortion movement has in many ways become part of establishment .
 officials from new_york_city , new_york_state , and metropolitan_transportation_authority unveil plan to introduce more express bus service along certain routes in all five boroughs . goal is to begin service in 2008 . plan has support of mayor_michael_r_bloomberg . mta has set aside $ 20 million dollars for project in its five-year capital plan .
 take-two interactive software announces resignation of chief executive jeffrey a lapin . company has had four chief financial officers and three chief executives since 2000 . securities and exchange commission has been investigating company for possible accounting irregularities for more than two years . company lowers its expectations for 2004 sales . richard_w_roedel , who became chairman in march , is interim chief executive . paul_eibeler is named president .
 senators hillary_rodham_clinton of new_york and joseph_lieberman and christopher_dodd of connecticut offer support to save the sound , connecticut fund for the environment and citizens campaign for the environment , groups that contend that liquefied natural gas plant in long_island sound proposed by broadwater_energy is bad idea and unnecessary . groups release report by synapse_energy_economics commissioned by connecticut fund for the environment that contends two plants under construction in canada could deliver gas through regional pipeline before broadwater plant could be built .
 niche stores cater to 7.7 million people enrolled in government 's special supplemental nutrition program for women , infants and children -lrb- wic -rrb- . members receive vouchers for specific food packages , enjoy convenience and are not concerned with prices , but growing number of wic-only stores typically charge 10 to 20 percent more than regular supermarket , passing costs on to government . some stores buy food at retail prices and resell it higher . congress has appropriated $ 4.6 billion for program this year .
 pres bush presses european leaders to cut off all support to hamas and dismisses news of possible cease-fire agreement involving hamas and other militant palestinian groups as irrelevent to middle_east peace . expresses skepticism of any deal purporting to call off attacks on israel , reiterating position that hamas must be dismantled . remarks come at joint_white_house news conference with romano_prodi , european_commission president , and prime min costas simitis of greece , which currently holds european_union presidency .
 habitats column on challenging renovation project undertaken by walston bobb-semple and wife crystal on abandoned civil_war-era_house in bedford-stuyvesant section of brooklyn . couple bought it for $ 548,000 in 2004 , estimating that it would take one year to restore each of four floors . while deadline has slipped , couple is seeing seductive charms of house emerge as work progresses .
 palestinian bomber detonates explosives 200 yards from busy checkpoint at northern edge of jerusalem , killing two palestinian passers-by and wounding 20 other people , including 6 israeli border police officers . israeli officials say they had hard intelligence about impending bombing and were on high alert . note explosion occurred when israeli soldiers approached suspicious car . last attack inside israel was on july 11 in tel_aviv , when bomb killed israeli soldier and wounded five others .
 august promises to be interesting month in argentina . in perceptible shift in balance of power , somewhat feisty argentina will be meeting less imperious international monetary fund to hammer out new three-year accord . for both sides , much rides on deal to replace current eight-month emergency agreement that expires aug 31 . argentina owes $ 14.3 billion to imf , more than 500 percent of country 's statutory imf quota .
 trial of paul_r_shanley , defrocked priest at center of sexual abuse crisis in roman_catholic_church , opens , cambridge , mass . prosecutor lynn_rooney charges he repeatedly raped and abused boy over six years , beginning in 1983 , when boy was 6 and shanley_served_newton , mass , church . his lawyer holds accuser 's account might have been coaxed by personal injury lawyers looking for clients . boston archdiocese has paid $ 500,000 settlement to accuser .
 new mexico , bucking trend by states to cut financing for their film offices , has started one of nation 's most aggressive film incentive programs . estimates filmmaking in state generated $ 80 million in spending in 2003 , up from $ 8 million in 2002 . has $ 85 million fund that invests directly in film projects through no-interest loans . gov bill_richardson comments , interview .
 new_york mets owner fred_wilpon admits that general manager steve_phillips , fired as team dwells in last place , was in danger of termination all year , and says that team and interim general manager jim_duquette will now focus on gradual revamping , dipping into minor league pool more often and improving scouting . among candidates mets will consider for general manager are montreal expos general manager omar_minaya , san_francisco giants general manager brian_sabean and oakland athletics general manager billy_beane .
 article on bridge fm , based in howell , nj , one of 15 religious format stations around new jersey . new station , result of partnership between two denominational evangelical churches , cornerstone calvary_chapel in howell and calvary chapel old bridge , offers insruction in bible by local and nationally known religious commentators as well as contemporary religious songs .
 last big piece of yukos oil company is sold at bankruptcy auction to prana , company unknown to financial analysts in moscow . $ 3.9 billion price is four and half times starting price in sale that analysts had not expected to draw much interest . mystery behind final buyer of yukos assets underscores air of intrigue that has prevailed through half-dozen bankruptcy auctions this spring , process that critics say is rigged sales primarily benefit russia 's state energy companies as government tightens its control over natural resources .
 brooklyn district atty charles_j_hynes turns back challenge of three opponents in fiercely fought democratic primary . is virtually assured victory in general election in heavily demoratic brooklyn , where republicans have yet to select candidate . receives 41 percent of vote and is closely trailed by state sen john_sampson , who has 37 percent , and mark g peters and arnold_kriss .
 article on independent filmmaker philippe_martinez , 37 , who , after weathering collapse of earlier company , fraud conviction and six-month jail term in france , has moved to hollywood from london to build his new company , bauer_martinez distribution . company , with $ 200 million in backing from british investors , has bought david_ayer 's film harsh times , plans to release at least eight others in 2006 and has concluded deal with harvey and bob_weinstein to distribute bauer_martinez movies on video and television .
 david_chen political memo column on issue of war in iraq as it applies to new jersey state sen thomas_kean jr , moderate republican who is seeking to unseat democratic us sen robert_menendez . notes kean has tried , with varying success , to distance himself from pres bush without directly criticizing him , while taking issue with vice pres dick_cheney and defense sec donald_rumsfeld .
 bush white_house , which said in past that any official who leaked name of cia agent valerie_plame would be fired , and also said karl rove and other senior aides had nothing to do with 2003 disclosure , refuses to answer questions about new evidence of rove 's role in matter . sen harry_reid and other democrats demand full account . press secretary scott_mcclellan , in two contentious briefings , declines to repeat promise to dismiss leaker or to say when pres bush learned of rove 's role . questions follow newsweek report that rove talked with time reporter matthew_cooper about cia agent , without identifying her , after plame 's husband , joseph_c_wilson iv , debunked bush claim about saddam_hussein 's nuclear weapons program . rove refuses comment and continues policy work at white_house . bush and mcclellan comments in past recalled .
 adeg , subsidiary of german food company edeka , is targeting aging european population with its new supermarket outside salzburg , austria . store , called adeg aktiv markt 50 + , is designed specifically for shoppers over age 50 , and features lower shelves , easier-to-read labels and wider aisles . median age in europe , currently 37.7 , is expected to rise to 52.3 by year 2050 due to falling birth rates and longer life expectancies , making elderly increasingly important consumer group . new adeg store also caters to younger shoppers , particularly single professionals .
 lawyer for i lewis_libby_jr , former aide to vice pres dick_cheney charged with perjury in cia leak case , unexpectedly asserts that libby was made scapegoat by white_house officials to protect pres bush 's chief political adviser karl rove . statement is first indication that deflecting blame onto bush administration will be libby 's legal strategy . also suggests that there was fighting within bush administration over leak investigation . lawyer theodore v wells jr does not explain how efforts to shield rove led to libby 's indictment . rove , who has not been charged , has acknowledged having been source for robert_d_novak column that first disclosed identity of cia officer valerie_plame_wilson . libby is charged with lying to grand jury investigating leak .
 retired university librarian mayme_agnew_clayton , who died in october at 83 , left behind one of most important collections of african-american materials in us . clayton painstakingly collected materials over lifetime and kept them in modest garage behind her los_angeles home . her son avery_clayton has rented former courthouse in culver_city , calif , to display collection and is struggling to gather funds to archive materials and form research and cultural center . experts say collection is priceless treasure trove . books and other items cost ms clayton hundreds of thousands of dollars over years , money she got through scrimping and living modestly .
 justice department demands that white_house turn over all documents related to unauthorized disclosure of cia officer valerie_plame 's identity . signals that fbi 's investigations into identity leak focuses on white_house . wants access to all records relating to former ambassador joseph_c_wilson iv , his trip to niger in 2002 to search for iraqi nuclear intelligence , his wife 's relationship to cia , or any contact wih journalist robert_novak and two other reporters who wrote about wilson case .
 article on garrison_keillor , 62 , writer and host for past 30 years of a prairie home companion , live weekly radio show broadcast on minnesota public radio . keillor , in new_york for tour in support of program 's 30th anniversary and celebratory dvd , comments on his career , show , why he loves new_york and his decision to return to radio after brief hiatus .
 sen john_kerry_attacks_bush administration for what he calls ` secret deal ' with saudi_arabia to cut oil prices in time to help president win re-election in nov . kerry seizes on bob_woodward book plan of attack , which recounts oval office discussion during which bush , vice pres cheney and defense_sec rumsfeld made deal with saudi_arabian_amb prince bandar bin sultan that would deliver lower gas prices . white_house spokesman dan_bartlett says there was ` no secret deal ' .
 arizona sen jon_kyl 's democratic challenger jim_pedersen seems to be benefiting from national decline in support for republicans and pres bush . recent polls show kyl with lead of 10 percentage points , compared with 20 or more in surveys earlier this year . immigration is key issue . kyl takes harder line opposing citizenship for illegal aliens , and pedersen supports providing most illegal immigrants with eventual chance of citizenship .
 sarah_boxer critic 's notebook on dnage , festival in new_york celebrating 50th anniversary of discovery of double helix by james_d_watson and francis_crick . scientific exhibits and art inspired by genetics discoveries are at new_york_academy_of_sciences , international photography center , new_york public library , cuny_graduate_center and other sites .
 deep hollow ranch in montauk , li , owned by rusty and diane_leaver , is on market for $ 17 million . offering includes 22 acres of land that can only be used for agricultural purposes or kept natural , four-bedroom house and two acres that can be developed . rusty_leaver says he would accept offer under asking price from buyer agreeing to continue raising cattle on land .
 as new_york_city housing market slows , women are buying at much higher rate than men , with concentration of female buyers appearing to be in brooklyn . developer david_walentas has had single women buy 72 of first 165 units sold in downtown brooklyn building , far surpassing sales to single men . properties in brooklyn are lower than in manhattan , with deposits as low as 10 percent , allowing more women who are first-time home buyers to break into market . women also seem more willing to risk that apartments will maintain value even as market dips . across nation , females make up 22 percent of nation 's home buyers , compared with 14 percent in 1995 .
 clyde_haberman nyc column on selling of name of new stadium for new_york mets to citibank , which paid $ 20 million for rights to call it citi field . old stadium honored william_a_shea , who helped bring national league baseball back to new_york . haberman compares honoring someone with their name on stadium with more commercial practice of purchasing right to name building .
 lebanese security officials in beirut seize plane that arrived from baghdad carrying 19.5 billion in new_iraqi_dinars , or about $ 12 million . officials detain lebanese businessmen muhammad issam_abu_darwish , richard_jreissati and michel_mkattaf for questioning on possible smuggling charges . darwish says money came from us-led coalition provisional authority and was intended to buy armored cars .
 houston_astros_beat_new_york_yankees , 8-0 , in first no-hitter against yankees in 45 years , longest stretch in major league history , and first time yankees have been no-hit at yankee stadium in 51 years . six houston pitchers make appearances in game , breaking another major league mark for number of pitchers involved in hurling no-hitter . in past , four pitchers have combined for no-hitters . game described .
 reporter 's notebook on pres bush 's encounter with stick shift on russian pres vladimir_putin 's gleamingly restored 1956 volga , parked outside putin 's dacha . american reporters with bush in moscow are barred from military parade marking 60th anniversary of defeat of nazis , but amuse themselves by watching glitzy production on russian television . cameras catch bush with other leaders , although not any out-of-favor dictators or former dictators . bush , traveling on to georgia , commiserates with pres mikhail_saakashvili about press .
 french authorities arrest more than 150 members of people_'s_mujahedeen , long-established armed iranian opposition group , accusing members of organizing terrorist acts and seizing $ 1.3 million in $ 100 bills in major raid near paris . photos . action coincides with international demands that iran allow more intrusive inspections of nuclear sites and with wave of student protests . people 's mujahedeen does not enjoy much support inside iran , largely because of its ties to iraq .
 questions about credibility of expert witness in lawsuits involving rollover accidents are putting ford_motor_co on defensive , as lawyers for accident victims press claims that ford covered up evidence that its bronco ii sport utility vehicle was dangerous . south_carolina_supreme_court last week said estate of ray h chewning jr whose leg was crushed in 1990 bronco ii rollover can seek to reopen case he lost decade ago . court cited claims by chewning 's lawyers that ford paid expert witness , former ford engineer david_bickerstaff , to testify falsely on its behalf . decision follows 2001 finding by federal judge in west_virginia case that there was evidence of ` conspiracy ' between fod and bickerstaff to mislead court . ford settled that case , which involved fatal accident , within two days of judge 's finding .
 jack_curry around the majors column discusses montreal_expos , which have finished six-city roadtrip that brought them to second home san_juan , puerto_rico . cincinnati reds have clinched 18 victories in final at-bat and are 8-2 in extra-inning games . new_york_yankees pitcher roger_clemens says he will not accept induction into baseball hall of fame unless he can do so as yankee .
 clyde_haberman nyc column on homeland security department 's apportionment of federal funds for anti-terrorism that saw new_york_city lose $ 83 million , 40 percent decrease , while omaha gained $ 3.2 million , or 63 percent . notes that city has $ 3.5-billion budget surplus and can afford to make up shortfall , and also has used 9/11 funds for purposes not related to terrorism , such as building projects not related to world trade center attacks .
 analysis : in aftermath of defense_sec_donald_h_rumsfeld 's appearances on capitol hill because of iraqi prisoner abuse scandal three critical forces will determine whether he keeps his job -- white_house , republican lawmakers and rumsfeld himself . white_house is most important , and some people close to its inner circle suggest that despite outward display of support for rumsfeld , years of battles with pentagon over iraq war planning and occupation have taken toll .
 new jersey transit opens $ 600 million rail depot in secaucus in order to allow thousands of passengers quicker and simpler train trips to and from midtown manhattan . passengers who use bergen , main and port jervis lines , which terminate in hoboken , will be able to transfer at secaucus to other new jersey transit trains that travel directly to pennsylvania station .
 cultural institutions group , league of organizations owned by new_york_city or occupying city land , is set to outline service cuts members may make if mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's proposed budget cuts are approved . budget calls for reducing aid for 34 institutions to $ 77.7 million from $ 105.6 million . report warns of need to lay off up to 1,000 staff members . actors tim_robbins , ruby dee and ossie_davis testify before city council , urging it to protect arts .
 stephen_daldry and rob_marshall , dyed-in-the-wool stage directors , are competing for oscar for best director for their excursions into film , daldry in the hours and marshall in chicago . marshall says film is always lurking in his theater work , while daldry says he sees theater and film as entirely distinct . both say transition from stage to screen was smoother than expected .
 marc_s_ryan , gov john_g_rowland 's budget director , testifies privately to lawyers for connecticut_legislative_committee_investigating_rowland 's finances . says that rowland never asked him to steer money in inappropriate way and that lawyers ' questioning showed lack of fundamental understanding of how process works . new allegations against rowland_center on trip to las_vegas and $ 15,000 allegedly given to him there by ralph_carpinella , waterbury businessman .
 editorial says ghana is what passes for success story in africa , having had four successful elections in decade and experienced peaceful transfer of power between democratically elected governments . says it is still , literally , dirt poor , with per capita income of $ 421 a year . says british prime min tony_blair 's proposal for rich countries to increase their aid to africa would be huge step forward .
 article on chappaqua summer scholarship program , all-volunteer effort that , since 1968 , has recruited academically talented students and pays all their expenses while they attend six-week school program run by horace_greeley_high_school in chappaqua , ny . program , which does not lack funds , has shrunk because of lack of host families . enrollment has dropped from about 40 teens a decade ago to 15 .
 verizon 's v cast , high-speed cellular phone network that delivers broadband internet-quality video , debuts 24 conspiracy and two other one-minute mobile episodes -lrb- referred to as mobisodes -rrb- especially shot and edited for cellphones . series , spinoff from tv program 24 , is produced by twentieth century fox_television . network gives subscribers access to some 300 video clips , most from two to three minutes long . cingular and sprint offer similar service , called mobitv , which makes more than 20 channels of television available .
 saudi security officials say that they have broken up vast terrorist ring , arresting 172 men who planned to blow up oil installations , attack public officials and military posts , and storm prison to free terrorist suspects . plot was uncovered over seven months . authorities seized cache of weapons buried in desert and over $ 5.3 million in cash . officials refer to ring as ` deviant group , ' phrase used to describe ideology of al_qaeda . say that suspects had trained in somalia , afghanistan and iraq .
 merrill lynch brokers and their bosses are fighting to stop john_t_fitzpatrick , who moved to brokerage arm of ubs last_week , from bringing more than $ 1 billion worth of his accounts , including those owned by retired general_electric_chairman_john_f_welch_jr , to ubs . some of fitzpatrick 's accounts belong to friends and former employees of martha_stewart who were clients of stewart 's broker peter_e_bacanovic until he was dismissed .
 amphibious assault ship nassau sails into north_carolina waters after nine months at sea and begins to disembark 1,100 marines returning to camp_lejeune , part of first contingent home from war in iraq . arrival is delayed by searches for two missing sailors . one fell into ocean chasing football on deck and second did not show up for roll call .
 general motors breaks off talks with renault and nissan on three-way alliance . gm 's chief executive rick_wagoner_calls_carlos_ghosn , who runs both french and japanese auto companies . call comes one day after gm 's board vote unanimously to end discussions . those votes to stop talks include one from jerome_b_york , associate of kirk_kerkorian , gm 's biggest individual shareholder , who had pushed for talks .
 eight people , including three employees of new_york_city 's human_resources_administration , are arrested and charged with conspiring to issue up to 500 medicaid cards to people who are ineligible . eight others are charged with illegally using card to receive benefits . prosecutors say scheme cost government at least $ 2 million in medicaid payments in last_year and a half . arrests call attention to fraud problems in city 's $ 4.1 billion medicaid program .
 article on conductor mario_sergio_miragliotta , who suffered spinal cord injury and became quadriplegic after serious car accident . miragliotta , prize student in inaugural class of american academy of conducting in 2000 , has regained some mobility in his arms and hands and is preparing to return to aspen music festival for first time since june 2001 accident . will conduct aspen_festival_orchestra , working from specially built wheelchair .
 modular houses are starting to appear across gulf_coast , as public officials and private citizens search for ways to speed slow pace of recovery from hurricane katrina and begin experimenting with new forms of shelter . number of modular houses on gulf_coast is still small . about 400 have been installed in mississippi in last year , but experts expect trickle to grow rapidly in 2007 . hurricane katrina destroyed 70,000 houses and apartments in mississippi . over 30,000 families in state still live in trailers supplied by federal_emergency_management_agency .
 estimated 180,000 muslims from west_bank and israel fill streets of jerusalem 's old city and pray at al_aksa_mosque compound on last friday before ramadan ends . thousands are turned back at city 's edge , some in scuffles with israeli security forces . israel only permits west bank men over age 45 to enter jerusalem .
 study by duke_university_director_andrew_d_krystal and henry_ford_hospital , detroit , sleep center director thomas_roth shows sepracor 's sleeping pill estorra can be used effectively for at least six months , finding some specialists say could lead to broader use of drugs for insomnia . sleeping pills are generally approved for use for 30 days , with doctor then supposed to evaluate whether use should be continued .
 retailing analysts and pollsters say consumers this holiday season seem to be searching for presents by category more than specific branded items . america 's resarech group poll shows three_years_ago , almost half of 8,000 shoppers polled in week after thanksgiving , 48 percent , though brand names were ` extremely important ' for choosing holiday gifts , while this year fewer than third , 32 percent , feel same .
 europe 's far right has made comeback in recent years , largely on strength of anti-immigration feelings sharpened by fear of islam . nowhere has right 's revival been as swift or as strong as in belgium 's dutch-speaking region of flanders , where support for anti-immigration party , vlaams belang or flemish interest , has surged from 10 percent of electorate in 1999 to nearly 25 percent in 2005 .
 sen charles_e_schumer and new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg clash over plan for development of world trade center site . schumer criticizes bloomberg proposal to build apartments and hotel instead of office space . asks bloomberg to commit $ 1.75 billion in liberty bonds to commercial development . demands that port authority of new_york and new jersey occupy space at freedom tower instead of elsewhere on site . bloomberg rejects schumer proposals , citing time and financing . neither has seat at table in bitter negotiations .
 analysis of acting gov richard j codey 's $ 27.4 billion budget proposal for new jersey . in it , codey blames state 's leaders , including himself , for allowing debt to mount by indulging in years of accounting gimmickry to underwrite political expediency . his remedy for state 's fiscal ills includes reducing spending for first time nine years , cutting programs , increasing taxes and suspending popular property tax rebates .
 former world chess champion bobby_fischer , after two decades of living in secrecy , is arrested by japanese immigration authorities in tokyo and accused of trying to leave country without valid passport . japanese news reports say fischer probably will be deported to us , where he faces charges for violating economic sanctions against former yugoslavia by playing exhibition match there in 1992 . fischer has expressed anti-us views since warrant was issued for his arrest on dec_15_, 1992 .
 serbia will try to elect president for third time in about 14 months . post has been vacant for year but two previous elections were declared void because required minimum of electorate did not vote . six candidates are running , with dragoljub_micunovic favored to win . coalition government has effectively collapsed and parliament was recently dissolved , with new elections scheduled for dec 28 .
 article on controversy surrounding unitedhealth_group 's alleged backdating of stock options for executives focuses on practices of stephen_j_hemsley , who has taken reins at unitedhealth from dr william_w_mcguire , who was forced to resign amid criticism of how stock options were awarded . says hemsley has not been accused of any wrongdoing . holds in shaking up management , board of unitedhealth appeared to opt for middle way between clean sweep and retaining top executives who could continue strong track record of mcguire . says probe by wilmer_cutler focuses on 29 option grants that accounted for nerarly 450 million stock options that company granted between 1994 and 2002 .
 article on computer_associates international which , week after resolving five-year probe into its financial practices and recent indictment of former chairman sanjay_kumar , is undertaking reorganization . about 5 percent of company 's work force , or some 800 people , including about 200 on long_island , will be laid off . chairman lewis_ranieri and chief operating officer jeff_clarke comment .
 william c rhoden sports of the times_column discusses probability that california_university-los angeles basketball coach steve_lavin will be dismissed after postseason , despite unexpected opening-round win over arizona_university in pac 10 tournament . contends that ucla 's inability to find consistency in coaching since john_wooden is due to program 's desperate attempts to repeat so-called glory days of wooden era .
 article on movie jarhead , directed by sam_mendes and based on anthony_swofford 's memoir of the first gulf war . joel_turnipseed , who served as truck driver with marine_corps in 1991 , says parts of his own book , baghdad_express , are in film . screenwriter william_broyles jr , who adapted swofford 's book for movie , says he has read and admired baghdad express but that stories are not swofford 's or turnipseed 's but ones held in common by all marines .
 lenny bruce , who turned stand-up comedy into social commentary , is posthumously pardoned by gov george_e_pataki , 39 years after being convicted of obscenity for using bad words in his greenwich village nightclub act . pataki says of state 's first posthumous pardon that it reflects new_york 's commitment to upholding first amendment . bruce 's 1964 conviction on misdemeanor obscenity charge made it almost impossible for him to get work . he was declared bankrupt and died of drug overdose in 1966 at age of 40 . his fellow comedians began petition drive this year for pardon . they and first amendment advocates rejoice at turn of events . bruce 's life and career recalled .
 merck wins decisively in second vioxx-related personal injury case to go to trial . outcome could slow flood of lawsuits against company . jury in new jersey votes 8 to 1 that vioxx did not cause frederick_humeston to have heart atack . just as significant for merck , jury concludes unanimously that company properly marketed drug vioxx . merck stopped selling vioxx after clinical trial linked it to heart attacks and strokes in patients taking drug for 18 months or more . humeston , who survived his heart attack and testified at trial , had been taking vioxx for less than two months before his heart attack .
 prime min blair tells senior members of parliament that ` massive amount ' of new intelligence suggests escalation of armed forces in persian_gulf is rattling saddam_hussein and undermining his rule over iraq . french min dominique_de_villepin , in sharply different assessment , warns against use of force at time when un inspectors are seeking more time to search for weapons . says france will work with other european countries for united_front against us push toward war . polls show antiwar sentiment increasing in france , britain and germany , and blair gives views while demonstrators protest outside .
 new_york_city officials end four days of wooing , confident that they impressed 13 members of international_olympic_committee 's evaluation commission with their message : that 2012 olympics in new_york would dazzle world . full 117-member oic will vote on july 6 . other contestants are paris , london , madrid and moscow . commission members visiting new_york found city working in overdrive to add sparkle and sense of control to place that often seems to defy order . endeavor took countless hours of planning .
 analysis of debate among information technology analysts , investors and economists as to whether technology industry is still growth industry as signs are emerging of recovery in industry . whether technology is still growth industry is important not only for technology companies , but for economy as whole . industry represents about 10 percent of economy and about 60 percent of investment in kinds of equipment that companies buy to run their businesses . technology research firm idc says technology spending will rise by 2.3 percent in 2003 . projects rise of 6 to 7 percent annually for 2004 through 2007 .
 heated contest in south_africa to lead african national congress and , by extension , to choose successor to pres thabo_mbeki , is being roiled by tangled financial dealings of brett_kebble , master swindler who was shot to death in 2005 . at issue is emerging record of his financial gifts and other aid to top figures in anc . glenn_agliotti , reputed drug kingpin , has been charged with kebble 's murder . he claims killing was an assisted suicide just days before audit exposed kebble 's billion-rand fraud . agliotti has been revealed to be close friend of jackie_selebi , national police commissioner , and has admitted calling selebi minutes after kebble 's murder . selebi has rejected calls to resign and pres mbeki has stood behind him .
 seven people are now on antibiotics as result of expanded investigation into first case of naturally occurring inhalation anthrax in united_states since 1976 . african drum maker vado diomande remains hospitalized in pennsylvania since collapsing after feb 16 performance at mansfield_university . centers for disease control and prevention scientists and others are investigating and testing diomade 's manhattan apartment , crown heights apartment and brooklyn_warehouse .
 iraqi shiites ' objections scuttle march 6 signing of interim constitution . ayatollah ali_al-sistani objects to provision calling for permanent constitution to become law if majority of voters approve , unless two-thirds majority in three of iraq 's 18 provinces reject it . provision was included to placate kurds , who hope to keep autonomy . majority of iraqi governing council reject sistani 's demands , sparking day of intense negotiations among shiites aimed at breaking impasse .
 congressional officials say white_house and central_intelligence_agency have refused to give senate committee one-page oct 2002 summary of prewar intelligence in iraq prepared for pres bush that contains few of qualifiers and none of dissents spelled out in longer intelligence reviews . senate democrats hold document could help clear up exactly what intelligence agencies told bush about iraq 's illicit weapons . republicans on committee dismiss stand .
 day after memos emerge suggesting that george_w_bush received favorable treatment when he was in national_guard , gary_killian , son of bush 's squadron commander lt col jerry_b_killian says he doubts authenticity of memos his father , who died 20 years ago , is said to have written . white_house dismisses charges , calling them part of coordinated attack by sen_kerry and his associates . fracas began after cbs_news and program 60 minutes reported on four memos they said were from killian 's personal file . memos said bush disobeyed direct order to go for physical in 1972 and that killian felt pressure to ` sugarcoat ' record . cbs stands by story and memos ' authenticity , although experts say fonts of documents resemble those of modern word processors . white_house does not contest authenticity of memos but continues to deflect questions from reporters .
 israel sends at least 100 tanks , armored personnel carriers and armored bulldozers into jabaliya refugee camp in gaza_city in fight against palestinian militants who have been firing rockets into nearby israeli town of sederot . at least eight palestinians are killed and 17 are wounded in two missile strikes , and one more is killed and seven captured trying to storm erez crossing . army seeks to establish temporary buffer zone of four to five miles to make sederot harder to hit .
 article on increasing number of students attending colleges in connecticut who choose to study abroad in any of 26 countries despite travel warnings from us_state_department . school for international training , which runs study-abroad programs in 60 countries , says more than 200,000 american students are studying abroad this year , almost 20 percent increase since 9/11 . mary_devins of connecticut_college says study abroad is no longer limited to students whose parents are wealthy and that many students choose colleges based partly on their study-abroad offerings .
 independent board investigating loss of space shuttle columbia recommends that nasa develop way to repair shuttle in space . nasa , seeking to resume spaceflight by early next year and perhaps as soon as december , says it is not clear how recommendation would fit with schedule . nasa administrator sean_o'keefe says nasa would meet or exceed all recommendations and do everything humanly possible to prevent third shuttle disaster .
 growing moss industry , which bagged as much as 17 million pounds of moss in 2003 , is generating concern among biologists , who fear stripping forests of fundamental element will upset woodland ecosystem . dr robin_wall_kimmerer , state_university_of_new_york_college_of_environmental_science and forestry biology professor and author of gathering moss , has observed moss harvesting and asserts that moss does not grow back quickly enough to allow for mass harvests . moss industry is loosely regulated and it is difficult to determine if moss was legally obtained or poached . total annual sales are projected at between $ 6 and $ 165 million . moss growth and collection described . potential of farming moss discussed .
 prince charles and camilla_parker_bowles marry after more than 30 star-crossed years in civil wedding ceremony at guildhall in windsor , england . parker bowles will hereafter be known as her royal highness , the duchess of cornwall . mood was one of sympathy for realistic intimacy of middle-aged love . contrast with charles 's first wedding , to princess diana , is stark . neither queen elizabeth_nor_prince_philip , charles 's parents , stand with couple .
 pres bush 's inaugural committee , seeking to raise more than $ 40 million , sends out hundreds of solicitations to biggest campaign contributors , offering packages of party benefits and special access to bush in exchange for hundreds of thousands of dollars . $ 100,000 buys dinner with special bush appearance and $ 250,000 buys tickets to all events and ` exclusive ' lunch with bush and vice pres cheney . photos . celebration will not be marked by restraint despite fact that 138,000 soldiers are at war in iraq , but organizers plan strong emphasis on military and veterans . fund-raisers do cap donations at $ 250,000 to avoid seeming greedy and prevent bad publicity over huge corporate donations .
 bomb explodes next to tel_aviv bus stop , killing israeli soldier and injuring 20 other israelis . prime min ariel sharon calls for israel to respond by pressing ahead with west_bank barrier to separate palestinians and israelis , which international court has ruled illegal . attack is first deadly bombing inside israel in nearly four months . al aksa martyrs brigades claims responsibility for bombing , calling it revenge for recent israeli raids in west_bank and gaza_strip . yasir arafat denounces attack , then hints that israelis might have been behind bombing .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg , who has refused to disclose his personal views on gay and lesbian marriage , reportedly says at national lesbian and gay journalists assn fund-raising dinner that he favors changing state law to legalize same-sex unions . nevin_cohen and daniel_hernandez file suit in state_supreme_court , manhattan , after being denied marriage license by new_york_city clerk . it is first of many expected suits challenging constitutionality of 1896 state law that has be interpreted as reserving marriage to man and women . new paltz mayor jason_west temporarily postpones second round of gay and lesbian marriages .
 idt_corp is submitting rival bid to buy global crossing out of bankruptcy , contending its proposal should be favored by government officials looking into national security implications of pending $ 250 million offer by hutchison_whampoa of hong_kong and singapore_technologies_telemedia , which has been approved by judge presiding over global crossing 's bankruptcy case . idt chairman howard_s_jonas says company will offer $ 255 million for controlling stake .
 non-profit housing development fund program has helped place 360 individuals and families earning 30 to 80 percent of lower fairfield_county 's $ 115,000 median income into relatively affordable homes in greenwich , stamford and norwalk , conn . provides low-interest mortgages and pays certain costs for buyers . is expanding into other parts of state .
 article on staunch opposition by local residents and others to proposal by federal_aviation_agency to allow jets weighing more than 100,000 pounds to land at teterboro_airport in suburban new jersey as well as about 3,000 other airports nationwide , including about 16 others in new jersey . congress has passed measure that may block proposal and port authority of new_york and new jersey chairman anthony_coscia says his agency will not modify airport to allow heavier planes to land .
 lawyers familiar with case say that atty gen john_ashcroft ordered death penalty sought in brooklyn case last spring even though federal prosecutors had recommended against it largely because of problems with witness 's identification of murder suspect . case against emile_dixon concerns july 26_, 2000 , killing of robert_thompson of brooklyn , which prosecutors say stemmed from dispute between rival drug gangs .
 walt disney_co has taken many steps at new_hong_kong_disneyland to reflect local culture , including heeding advice of feng shui consultant . park is venture with hong_kong government and first of_parks_disney wants to build in china . disney invested $ 316 million for 43 percent equity stake . hong_kong contributed $ 419 million .
 health officials in suffolk_county , ny , going against brookhaven_national_laboratory and us_energy_department , oppose $ 7.8 million plan to excavate 12,000 cubic yards of sediment to remove mercury , pcb 's and other chemical and radiological contaminants in peconic_river on lab property . department and environmentalists support alternative plan that would remove 14,000 cubic yards of sediment along mile and half stretch of river .
 rough-and-tumble culture brought to london 's financial markets by new_york firms may be tamed a bit by court award of $ 1.5 million in back pay to steven_horkulak , former trader for cantor_fitzgerald , who says he was driven from his job by bullying behavior , constant swearing and threatening attitude of lee_amaitis , chief executive of cantor 's international arm . cantor and amaitis defend his ` direct ' and ` forceful ' management style . even some veteran new_york traders agree that manners on their side of atlantic could stand some improvement .
 california politicians , convinced by hollywood leaders that state 's dominance in entertainment production has been eroded by incentives offered by other states , are poised to enact subsidies to keep productions from leaving . los_angeles entertainment industry development corp figures show that number of feature-film on-location production days , which excludes production days on studio lots , has dropped from peak of 13,980 in 1996 to 8,707 in 2004 .
 gen peter_j_schoomaker , recalled from retirement six months ago to lead army , is moving rapidly to refashion forces at moment of greatest challenge since vietnam war . eight of ten active-duty divisions are moving in or out of iraq and afghanistan and almost 165,000 national_guard and reserve soldiers have been activated for assignments that are far longer than citizen-soldiers ever expected . schoomaker explains goal of creating faster , more lethal force without taking more expensive step of asking for larger army , interview during inspection of huge desert war game at fort_irwin , california .
 house majority leader steny h hoyer says that congress might consider legislation revising authorization it gave pres bush in 2002 to use military force in iraq . senate majority leader harry_reid moves to force debate on resolution opposing troop increase that has been offered by sens_joseph_r_biden jr and chuck_hagel . hoyer photo .
 article on tax collector 's office in new_haven , conn , which has become second agency in us to use bootfinder , $ 25,000 hand-held device that attaches to lap-top computer and reads both moving and stationary license plates in search of stolen vehicles or ones on which taxes are owed . mayor john_stefano_jr says $ 1.25 million in overdue taxes are outstanding on about 20,000 vehicles . city tax collector c j cuticello says he found $ 10,000 in delinquent car taxes during first four hours of use . says his office collected $ 50,000 in car taxes in first three hours after article about device appeared in newspaper .
 hurricane katrina pushes ashore north of miami , fla , laden with heavy rain but not much strength . sustained winds of 80 miles per hour bend palm trees and rattle windows , but there are no reports of heavy damage . more than million homes lose power . two deaths are reported , with one person struck by tree and other electrocuted by downed power line . storm turns to southwest .
 two men who were at former basketball star jayson_williams 's country estate in new jersey on night that costas_christofi was killed testify that they saw williams wiping down a shotgun moments after fatal blast . however , third witness at scene that night maintains that williams never encouraged any of nine men in mansion to lie to authorities about shooting .
 sec colin_powell will meet with chinese leaders in beijing to try to narrow sharp differences on dismantling north_korea 's nuclear weapons program and disarming iraq . will urge china to use its ` considerable influence ' as principal supplier of aid to north_korea . will also ask china not to veto new un resolution on use of military force in iraq . photo . powell pressed case on iraq during stop in japan .
 senior counterrorism officials say that leaders and operatives of al_qaeda have reorganized bases of operations in at least half-dozen locations , including kenya , sudan , pakistan and chechnya . say leaders have begun to recruit new members , train new followers and plan new attacks on western targets in earnest . cite secret arrests in united_states in last_two_months of two arab men suspected of having been sent by senior leaders of al_qaeda to scout targets for new terror attacks . men were part of larger group of about six qaeda followers arrested in recent months whose presence in united_states has led authorities to conclude that terrorist group remains determined to carry out attacks on american soil . photo of fazul abdullah_muhammad , a leader of al_qaeda , who has been seen in somalia . global map shows sites of qaeda captures , escapes or failed raids , trials or indictment or attacks .
 pre-construction sales at two ultra-high-end condominium developments in jersey city and hoboken , nj , belie softening of housing market . both trump_plaza_condominium_tower in jersey city and w hotel under construction in hoboken have seen substantial number of sales in less than month of offerings . extremely upscale amenities are aimed at highly-compensated young professionals .
 article on slump in movie box office sales , which continues into its 18th_weekend . batman begins leads box office , with estimated $ 26.8 million in its second_weekend and bewitched comes in second , with $ 20.2 million in its opening weekend . exhibitor relations reports overall box office performance , while solid , has dropped by 7 percent over 2004 .
 article on whether stock market will rebound in 2003 after three years of decline . says to some bulls , real issue is not so much whether economic outlook is bright , but whether share prices fell far enough to more than compensate for remaining risks . holds it has been seven decades since last time market went down for four consecutive years , as would happen if 2003 turned out to be bad year . adds it has been more than six decades since third_year of presidential election cycle brought lower share prices . says big bear markets are usually followed by bull markets with leadership that is different from previous bull market .
 search of icy waters and small islands off city_island , bronx , turns up no trace of teenagers charles_wertenbaker , henry_badillo , andrew_melnikov and max_guarino , missing for three days after shoving off in small fiberglass rowboat after leaving party . scores of city islanders join search effort , which did not begin until noon of day after boys disappeared , when families reported them missing . police comr raymond_kelly discloses that police dispatcher received 12-second phone call just after boys were last seen , saying boat they were in was taking on water , but says there was insufficient information to mount search at that time .
 virgin group is in talks with several us cities to find base for low-cost carrier that company intends to start by summer or fall 2004 . spokesman will whitehorn says carrier will be owed mostly by american investors . sir richard_branson , founder of virgin_group , is negotiating with potential investors to raise $ 200 million to start airline .
 board of sony_corp of japan turns to westerner to fill top position , naming sir howard_stringer its chairman and chief executive . he will succeed nobuyuki_idei , who plans to retire next year . stringer is credited with helping revive company 's music and movie businesses in united_states as head of sony_corp_of_america . idei used his background in marketing to reshape sony into more media-focused company . choice of stringer to succeed him seen as recognition of turnaround in sony 's entertainment businesses , which are among most profitable parts of company . stringer hints at future efforts to integrate entertainment and electronics focuses of company . kunitake_ando is set to resign as sony 's president and be replaced by ryoji_chubachi . ken_kutaragi is demoted and will give up his seat on sony 's board . allowing foreigner to take over reins of sony seen as one of boldest moves japanese company could make .
 eight students in enterprise , ala , are killed when tornado tears apart their high school . officials defend their decision not to evacuate school earlier , saying impending tornadoes would have made it too dangerous . at least 31 tornadoes batter nation 's midsection from minnesota to gulf_of mexico , killing 10 in alabama , 9 in georgia and 1 in missouri .
 profile of and interview with bruce_mcnall , former hollywood movie producer , los_angeles_kings_hockey_franchise owner and race horse owner who lost everything when he was convicted of bank frauds totaling more than $ 200 million . mcnall , after four years in federal prisons and six months in halfway_house , owes government $ 5 million and is trying to make comeback in movie business .
 all 136 serbian homes in kosovo village of svinjare are burned to ground by ethnic albanian mob . photos . map . village is one of dozens across kosovo attacked during two days of violence . un officials say 28 people died . scenes are mirror image of destruction less than five_years_ago when serb authorities tried to expel majority ethnic albanians , which led to nato intervention .
 meredith_rosenthal , harvard_school_of_public_health researcher reporting in new_england journal of medicine , holds that pharmaceutical industry spends roughly $ 15.7 billion annually to market medications . key target of marketing is individual physicians with estimated $ 6,000 to $ 11,000 spent per doctor per year . article , by dr dan_shapiro , university_of_arizona assistant professor of clinical psychiatry , stresses importance of developing policies that restrict drug company contact with medical schools and students . cites analysis led by harvard_university dr timothy_peterson that shows doctors believe what drug marketing tells them .
 california 's highway 99 has two faces : wildly unromantic back-alley that is blur of cellphone towers and salvage yards , and road where peach and almond blossoms burst forth on every tree . this month scenic america , national nonprofit organization that champions distinctive vistas , will designate highway 99 in central_valley one of country 's 10 most endangerd landscapes .
 article on day in operation of new_york_city 's subway as sprawling system marks 100th anniversary . price has risen from nickel to $ 2 , but experience has changed little in fundamentals since 1904 , when mayor george_b_mcclellan grabbed silver control handle and started first train . snapshot of workers and riders over course of 24 hours .
 robert f kennedy jr is considering running for new_york state attorney general , as is his brother-in-law andrew_cuomo , who is getting divorce from kennedy 's sister kerry . possibility of democratic primary between two men promises to be not only battle of dynasties but also more fodder for tabloids , which featured front-page headlines in 2003 about kennedy-cuomo marital rift . there is said to be bad blood between two men over that matter . besides kennedy and cuomo , former new_york_city public advocate mark_green is said to be thinking about entering race . number of candidates with well-known political names considering this race reflects prominence that current atty gen mark_spitzer has given position , and is sign of many democrats ' reluctance to run against him in gubernatorial primary next summer .
 city university_of_new_york plans to ask new_york state for $ 1.9 billion in capital funds over five years for much needed building repairs after $ 2.9 billion request last year went unanswered . state 's refusal to award_state_university_of_new_york $ 2.5 billion until it gave more detail about how funding would be spent prevented state from acting on cuny 's budget request last year .
 ford_motor_co raises its third-quarter earnings forecast and announces beginning of restructuring plan for its struggling jaguar division . will cut 1,150 jobs in england , in large part by closing its browns lake assembly plant in conventry . jaguar will sell its formula one racing business and refocus on its core business . ford 's chief financial officer don_leclair comments .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column criticizes willingness of united_states to overlook pakistan 's role in nuclear proliferation in exchange for pres pervez_musharraf 's cooperation in hunting down osama bin laden before election day . questions why no one from us has even asked to interrogate dr abdul_khan eight months after he confessed to selling nuclear technology . contends bush administration can not be so complacent about tracking down khan 's clients .
 german chancellor gerhard_schroder and his wife have adopted 3-year-old russian girl named viktoria from orphanage in st_petersburg . shroder has worked to heal wartime wounds in europe and doris_schroder-kopf is former journalist active in charities for children in st_petersburg . photo . separately , defense_sec peter struck reveals that he suffered mild stroke in june . line drawn by german public and media on personal stories noted .
 article looks at florida 's enduring appeal despite hurricanes and political turmoil . state 's population soared by 24 percent to 16 million from 1990 to 2000 and is now above 17 million . floridians who have never experienced big hurricane seem ` open-minded ' about them . few people with real influence seem interested in stopping development boom that will only increase costs of rebuilding .
 columbia_university , long starved for space in morningside_heights , is buying up 17-acre swath to north in west_harlem , in area between broadway and riverside_park , from 125th to 133rd street . photo . map . multibillion-dollar project would replace battered brick industrial buildings with school buildings , performing arts and research centers , jazz_club and dormitories . university sees campus , which it calls manhattanville , as link to health sciences complex in washington_heights and as good fit with redevelopment of hudson_river waterfront . president lee_bollinger comments . renzo piano and skidmore_owings_&_merrill are designing project . university hopes to avoid community opposition , meeting quietly with rep charles_rangel and other leaders and setting up local advisory group .
 joe_nocera column on michael_mayo , head_of_financial_services_research team at prudential_equity_group . says mayo is one of few wall street analysts willing to put sell recommendations on stocks when he thinks it is warranted . recalls what resulted when mayo , in spring_of 2005 , put sell rating on j p morgan chase .
 federal financial institutions examination council , interagency group of five federal banking regulators , begins investigation into cardsystems solutions , payment processor where security breach has put millions of american cardholders at risk for fraud . officials are assessing security at cardsystems ' operational centers , at major credit card companies and at banks that may be involved . probe is expected to take two to four weeks . fbi is conducting separate criminal investigation .
 tobacco companies pledge to fight justice_department efforts to recover $ 289 billion from industry , which government contends conspired to deceive consumers about dangers of its products . several legal and industry experts question legal foundation of lawsuit . companies named in suit are philip_morris , brown_&_williamson , lorillard , r j reynolds tobacco and liggett unit of vector_group .
 jersey footlights column : hoboken historical museum opens exhibit tubes : rails under the hudson , 1874 to the present-day path . frank_sinatra jr will perform with sinatra_orchestra , led by terry_woodson , at new jersey state theater in new_brunswick . joy behar , co-host of television show the view , will perform stand-up comedy at community theater in morristown .
 martha_stewart living omnimedia employees begin to confront future without their founder , as business repercussions of verdict against stewart are already being felt . wcbs-tv withdraws martha_stewart living show from its lineup . company 's stock price falls 23 percent after jury finds stewart guilty of conspiracy , obstruction of justice and making false statements in connection with sale of her shares of imclone_systems in 2001 . analysts say stewart 's conviction has dealt staggering blow to her company .
 foreigners and ` mainland ' russians on sakhalin_island now need permits for most travel outside capital , yuzhno_sakhalinsk , under new government campaign against gangster activities related to illegal export to japan of about $ 1.3 billion worth of crab and seafood fished every year from waters around sakhalin . new permit system is shaping up as epic clash between russia 's traditional love for controls and demands of free market .
 david_pogue column on sony_corp 's mylo , $ 350 wirless pocket communicator , measuring 4.8 by 0.9 by 2.5 inches , intended for college crowd . device requires wireless internet signal , like wi-fi hot spots that blanket many college campuses . mylo 's best trick is making voice calls using skype , free computer-to-computer chat program . mylo eliminates computer on user 's end .
 stuart_miller-sharon_seitz op-ed article criticizes brooklyn_community_board 's vote to rename fulton street for harriet_tubman , pointing out that tubman , however important in black history , has less historical connection to brooklyn than fulton , whose steamboat ferry service in 1814 helped transform rural area into thriving center of commerce . suggests alternative streets that could be renamed , and black figures from brooklyn who also merit honors .
 janus capital will refund $ 31.5 million to investors as restitution for market-timing trading which took place in multiple janus mutual funds . securities and exchange_commission and new_york state atty gen eliot_spitzer , along with several other state attorneys general , have been investigating mutual fund industry for such illicit trading for past three months . spitzer asserts he will continue investigation of trading practices at janus despite offer of restitution .
 federal court in new_york upholds constitutionality of government 's detention of jordanian osama_awadallah as material witness ten days after sept 11 terrorist attacks , as well as indictment of him for perjury in denying he knew one hijacker . photo . atty gen john_ashcroft hails ruling that is likely to reinforce bush administration 's use of federal material-witness statute as tool for detaining possible terrorists .
 business and leisure travel in middle_east and south_asia has surged , heating up regional competition and spurring multibillion-dollar expansions of persian_gulf carriers and airports . middle east accounts for only about 5 percent of world air transport market , and most of its airlines , including saudi_arabian_airlines , are clunky , poorly managed operations controlled by state . passenger traffic in region ended in november grew 5.4 percent , compared with worldwide traffic increase of 2.1 percent . plane takeoffs and landings grew 10.3 percent , compared with worldwide decline of 0.6 percent .
 on stage and off column . comedian martin short comments on show he plans to bring to broadway next april , as yet unnamed , in collaboration with songwriter marc_shaiman and director scott_wittman . revivals of david_mamet plays glengarry glen_ross and american buffalo are slated for broadway . his new play , romance , is set to open in february at the atlantic theater .
 millions of american families who rode recent wave of low interest rates to home ownership and rapid accumulation of debt are now facing interest rate rise . federal reserve 's policy makers are widely expected to raise rates quarter of percentage point and follow that with similar increases periodically over next 18 months . americans are more indebted than ever , owing nearly $ 9 trillion in home mortgages , car loans , credit card debt , home equity loans and other forms of personal borrowing . nearly 40 percent of total was accumulated in just four years . most of debt is at fixed interest rates , thus will be unaffected initially by rate rise . one-fifth of household debt , $ 1.8 trillion , is borrowed at variable rates that are likely to rise quarter of percentage point over next few weeks . immediate cost for nation 's households as result of this process could be as much as $ 4.5 billion .
 ralph_blumenthal travel article on resorts opening in western states by indian tribes and new ones with indian themes . describes pima and maricopa_community 's sheraton wild horse pass resort outside phoenix , ariz , inn of the mountain gods , which mescalero apaches plan to open in ruidosa , nm , in mid-march , hyatt_regency_tamaya in santa_ana_pueblo , nm , and hyatt_regency_scottsdale_resort and spa in scottsdale , ariz .
 article on three young stars of billy_elliot : the musical , which is set to open in london on may 12_after_six_weeks of previews . show , adapted from hit 2000 movie stars liam_mower , 12 , george_maguire , 14 , and james_lomas , 15 , who take turns in title role to comply with british law .
 pakistan 's economy is booming , spurred by mix of government policy , serendipity and changing global tides brought on by american campaign against terrorism . well-off , at least , are living extremely well . economy grew 6.4 percent in last fiscal year . prime min shaukat_aziz , former citibank executive , projects 8 percent annual growth in two years ' time , interview . credits five-year economic reform effort .
 iran refuses to abandon plans to operate uranium enrichment equipment that could be used either for energy purposes or in nuclear bomb-making project . refusal threatens to scuttle nuclear agreement iran reached with france , britain and germany . it also gives new ammunition to bush administration , which asserts that iran has secret nuclear weapons program . impasse coincides with opening of international_atomic_energy_agency meetings to review iran 's nuclear program . agency chief mohamed elbaradei photo .
 soaring tea sales in us discussed . photos . american consumers last year spent $ 5 billion on tea , five times as much as decade ago , though still far below $ 20 billion spent on coffee . companies like starbucks , with its tazo brand , and republic of tea market specialty teas to huge potential market of baby boomers .
 op-ed article by tom_andersen scores connecticut legislature for backing off from its commitment to help clean up long_island sound by slashing funds for sewage plant improvements . notes new_york , on other hand , has become tortoise that might reach nitrogen reduction goal of 58.5 percent first . calls on connecticut_general_assembly to reach agreement with governor to restore clean water fund .
 new_york_state_senate approves environmental bill that will help cleanup polluted and abandoned industrial sites . expects to put $ 120 million into state 's superfund program and cleanup 800 sites , including 102 in new_york_city . bill contains strong public health provisions and sets highest level in nation for contaminates in soil . brownfield provision will provide $ 135 million in tax credits for developers who voluntarily clean up sites , and $ 15 million for community groups to identify and plan options for use .
 op-ed article by stephanie_coontz details origins of valentine 's day . says current expectations of married bliss would have appalled those who invented day , and baffled couples steeped in rules of traditional courtship in west before 1800 's . says roman_catholic_church that declared feb 14 st valentine 's day in 498 ad hoped it would undercut roman fertility festival , and christian veneration of married love is hard to discern in first 1,500 years of church history . says today 's high expectations are monumental improvement over past , when violence , adultery and day-to-day misery were considered normal in marriage .
 george_vecsey sports of the times_column discusses almost mythical moment during 1954 world series at polo grounds when new_york_giants_center fielder willie_mays made great catch of drive hit by cleveland indians player vic_wertz . discusses arnold_hano book a day in the bleachers , which deals with game , series and what happened to players involved in series in subsequent years .
 hollywood party for then-pres bill clinton and hillary_rodham_clinton in august 2000 was organized by peter_paul , who served time on drug and fraud convictions . clintons try to distance themselves and senator returns $ 2,000 paul gave to her campaign . clintons are not named in investigation , although mrs_clinton 's campaign director david_rosen is accused of underreporting cost of fund-raiser . sen clinton 's campaign says it did not know about paul 's past , only that he was business associate of comic book artist stan_lee . paul got involved in democratic politics on suggestion by fund-raiser aaron_tonken that it would be good way to raise his profile . hoped to persuade pres clinton to serve on board of his and lee 's company , stan_lee_media . clinton allies say paul went public with concerns about financial matters with rosen and sen_clinton 's campaign in attempt to cut deal with prosecutors investigating bankruptcy at stan_lee_media .
 defense sec donald h rumsfeld speaks to 18 defense ministers , largely from nato , aboard uss john f kennedy in persian_gulf . goal is to reinforce alliances for operations in iraq and afghanistan actions and show solidarity as well as to demonstrate american military power . rumsfeld later makes surprise visit to al asad airbase in western iraq to meet top marine commanders and address marines .
 major rift develops in republican ranks in congress over handling of iraqi prison abuse scandal . repr duncan_hunter , chairman of house_armed_services_committee , accuses senate counterparts of spending too much time on matter and distracting military from iraq mission . senate_committee_chairman_john_warner has made clear he will pursue issue in public . photo . fight reflects mounting political anxiety as congress grapples with administration 's request for $ 25 billion more for war .
 pres george w bush asserts that report from chief weapons inspector in iraq_david_kay justified american-led invasion even though no actual weapons have been found . says iraq 's active research projects and efforts to obtain missiles proved that saddam_hussein was danger to world . some congressional democrats , such as sen carl_levin , use report as evidence that bush exaggerated iraqi threat . bush and top aides , including sec_of_state_colin_l_powell , try to gain upper hand , portraying report as vindication , not setback . report includes evidence that iraq negotiated deal with north_korea to obtain missile technology .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg talks with us homeland security sec michael_chertoff about increasing aid to new_york_city . city is facing 40 percent cut in federal funding compared to last year . bloomberg is doubtful of increase for this year and is focusing on other sources of money and future years .
 long hours on air tax emotions of television anchors like cnn 's aaron_brown , who lost composure briefly watching first pictures of american soldier 's attack on fellow soldiers in kuwait . extended broadcasts also magnify foibles , such as ` supercilious tone ' of abc 's peter_jennings or ` giddy cheerleading ' of fox_news anchors . jennings , whose canadian accent may be more pronounced just now , also has had noticeably strained exchanges with ted_koppel , now traveling in desert with us forces .
 bruce_wasserstein 's succes in quietly outbidding group led by mortimer_b_zuckerman for new_york magazine is talk of media watchers . zuckerman group , which included donny_deutsch , nelson_peltz , harvey_weinstein and jeffrey_epstein , had campaigned publicly and confidently for magazine , openly speculating about changes they planned . zuckerman plays down loss , interview . had tried to low-ball owner , primedia_inc , because magazine was not sought by biggest magazine-publishing companies and was not allowed to make new bid .
 erdne ombadykow , 32-year-old man who was born in philadelphia , has been identified by dalai_lama as telo rinpoche , buddhist saint who lived in northern india 400 to 500 years ago . ombadykow spends about six months of every year as chief lama in kalmykia_republic , russia . he lives in erie , colo , with his wife and 6-year-old son rest of year .
 arts briefing column : vassar_college in poughkeepsie , ny , is opening new center for drama and film designed by cesar_pelli . tony award winners jane_krakowski and nathan_lane will host 12th annual broadway on broadway free outdoor concert in times square . british shakespeare_assn holds its inaugural conference at de_montfort_university in leicester , eng .
 dan_barry_column on what kind of future awaits joel_steinberg , who has been paroled after serving nearly 17 years in prison for beating to death lisa_steinberg , 6-year-old child in his care . notes that steinberg has spent two weeks since his release holed up in fortune society facility in manhattan , too afraid for his life to venture out .
 scene described as new_york society for ethical culture hosts its first willie_mae rock ` n ' roll camp for girls . camp , with inaugural class of 66 campers , ages 8 to 18 , is patterned after six-year-old camp in portland , ore , whose roots are in feminist punk-rock riot grrl movement of pacific_northwest .
 article on spate of 30 thefts of xenon gas headlights from lexus rx300 and rx330 suv 's in greenburgh , ny , in last six weeks . headlights , used on many newer high-end cars , can be mounted on any other car and are popular on street racers . more than 250 such incidents have been reported in at least eight municipalities in westchester_county since august .
 opium cultivation is surging in afghanistan , defying all efforts of afghan government and international officials to stop it . officials predict that land under poppy cultivation will rise by 30 percent or more in 2004 , possibly yielding record crop . country produced almost 4,000 tons in 2003 , three-fourths of world 's opium . trade generated $ 1 billion for farmers and $ 1.3 billion for traffickers , more than half of afghanistan 's national income . us officials , reluctant to open new front in campaign against terror or engage in antidrug war in afghanistan , are conflicted about how to combat it .
 pfc keith_maupin , us soldier missing for week since his convoy was attacked near baghdad , is seen on videotape being held captive by six armed and masked men . voice speaking arabic on tape , shown on arab news network al_jazeera , says maupin is being held to trade for iraqi prisoners of americans . another soldier , sgt elmer_c_krause , and seven civilian contractors are also missing after april 9 attack . radical shiite cleric moktada al-sadr , in sermon at kufa_mosque , refuses to disband his militia as us officials have demanded .
 charles schwab_corp announces lower commissions for online stock trades by all sorts of customers except those not-so-affluent investors on which it built its franchise . starting in june , customers with more than $ 1 million in their accounts will pay as little as $ 9.95 to buy or sell shares through schwab , but customers with less than $ 100,000 will pay three times as much -- $ 29.95 for each trade -- unelss they make more than eight trades each quarter . schwab 's chief executive david_pottruck comments .
 article on work of renovating and preserving very old homes in westchester_county , ny , dating to 18th and 19th centuries , particularly those that have been added on to or renovated before . living in really old houses means that maintenance is nearly constant , it is often a labor of love and owners must cope with additions that have been tacked on over years and try to make modern conveniences fit into sometimes not-so-accommodating spaces . some changes to 1757 farmhouse , plus later additions , in bedford , victorian_house in new_castle , 1760 's house in mount pleasant and 1742 house in chappaqua described .
 universal mccann_forecaster_robert_j_coen predicts national and local advertising spending in united_states will grow combined 7.3 percent in 2004 , up from his earlier forecast of 6.9 percent . expects spending to grow 6.5 percent in 2005 over 2004 . reduces his prediction for ad spending growth in local media across country , citing softnes in categories like retail and classifieds .
 oakland museum of california opens exhibit about california during vietnam war , ripping at wounds of state 's swelling vietnamese-american population . exhibit 's content was significantly changed to reflect their complaints and sensitivities . those from war 's losing side in south feared displays would give their viewpoint and experiences short shrift . under pressure from vietnamese-americans , 80 percent of whom came from south , musuem agreed to leave out picture of ho chi_minh .
 us imports continue to surge despite weak dollar because us is importing parts needed for goods made in us . january import bill was record $ 159.1 billion . trade deficit reached record $ 617 billion in 2004 . imports equal 16 percent of nation 's overall economic output , up full percentage point in one year , compared with 11 percent of gross domestic product decade ago .
 us gives cautious response to china 's move to volunteer details about 56 political prisoners and suspected spies whose prison sentences have been or may be reduced . offer comes as bush administration considers criticizing china at un_human_rights_commission meeting . details are given to dui_hua_foundation in san_francisco . director john_kamm comments .
 san_diego_county is home to 18 indian reservations where people are also suffering from effects of devastating wildfires , although mostly without media attention . photos . map . ten percent of 340,000 acres burned is indian country . entire san_pasqual reservation , 1,400 acres , burned , including more than one-third of homes , mostly uninsured trailers and prefabricated units .
 donald_trump will invest $ 55 million of his money to maintain 25 percent stake in trump hotels and casino resorts as part of bankruptcy deal . trump says he has cash on hand , pegging his net worth at $ 4 billion to $ 5 billion , interview . cursory examination of trump 's finances suggests his claims of being billionaire may be greatly exaggerated .
 eighteen american holocaust survivors object to $ 4.1 million fee sought by burt_neuborne , lawyer who helped win $ 1.25 billion settlement from swiss banks over nazi looting of jewish holdings . say they thought neuborne was continuing to work pro bono . neuborne says he never promised his most recent work would be free . objection to fee was filed in federal court in new_york_city .
 qwest_communications will not longer pursue buying mci , leaving it to be acquired by verizon_communications . decision comes after mci 's board accepts sweetened offer from verizon : $ 26 a share , up from $ 23.10 a share . board says verizon 's new bid , which is still 13 percent lower than qwest 's last offer of $ 30 a share , is superior .
 investigators discover several mass graves in southern iraq that are believed to contain bodies of people killed by saddam_hussein 's government . one near basra appears to contain about 5,000 bodies of iraqi soldiers who joined failed uprising after 1991 war . another near samawa holds some 2,000 members of kurdish clan of massoud_barzani .
 royal ahold_nv , in effort to put $ 880 million accounting scandal behind it , says james_l_miller , chief executive of us_foodservice , subsidiary where problems are centered , resigns . henny de ruiter , chairman of ahold 's supervisory board , tells shareholders that he regrets losses they have suffered as result of scandal and sharp fall in company 's shares that followed . avoids blaming miller for problems at us_foodservice . neither miller nor any of his subordinates have been charged with any wrongdoing . robert g tobin will serve as interim chief executive of us_foodservice , replacing miller . anders_moberg , newly nominated chief executive , vows to restore common sense to company .
 andre nowacki is reunited with hanna_morawiecka after nearly 60 years . her family hid him and his mother from nazis in their warsaw apartment for two and half years . reunion at kennedy_international_airport was arranged by jewish foundation for rightous . nowacki , 68 , and morawiecka , 74 , will spend next two weeks catching up and getting to know each other 's families . they will also try once again to understand why hanna 's mother , janina_kwiecinska , took such risks .
 widening scandal over reported attempt by a producer of the pianist to solicit bribe from editor of poland 's largest newspaper is now threatening to bring down poland 's government and block its entry into european_union . pres aleksander_kwasniewski suggests that his longtime rival , prime min leszek_miller , should resign because his reputed involvement in scandal could turn voters against his government in referendum scheduled for june 8 on joining european_union .
 consumer groups and assembly democrats assail new_york gov george_e_pataki 's plan to direct $ 160 million of new_york_charitable_asset_foundation 's endowment to biomedical research . foundation , mandated to provide health care to poor , was created in 2002 as part of agreement when state allowed empire blue cross blue shield to become profit-making company . critics see pataki approach , which has support of senate majority leader joseph_l_bruno , as attempt to raid foundation . pataki and bruno say profits from conversion were higher than expected and foundation 's 5 percent share exceeded what had been envisioned .
 independent financial analysts appearing at city_council_hearing_say_mayor_michael_r_bloomberg 's $ 4.1 billion plan to redevelop west side of manhattan is expensive and risky . are not opposed to extension of no . 7 subway line and new streets , parks and other projects within plan , but say administration 's plan to pay for them with long-term bonds and short-term debt issued by proposed hudson yards infrastructure_corp would cost $ 1.3 billion more than if city used conventional borrowing . city admits to additional cost , but say projects , along with rezoning and new football stadium , would catalyze residential and commerical development in area and generate more than $ 60 billion in additional tax revenue over next 30 years .
 at least 9 american soldiers are wounded in two separate incidents near mushaheda , north of baghdad , days after united_states miltary said it had completed successful operation to quell insurgency in region . military plays down severity of fighting , but number of wounded is among highest for single day since official end to major combat on may 1 .
 newly completed army criminal investigation implicates 28 active-duty and reserve soldiers in deaths of two afghan men at bagram_air_base in dec 2002 , and describes potential offenses ranging from involuntary manslaughter to assault to conspiracy . five or six soldiers could face most serious charges . highest-ranking in group are two captains .
 experts say awareness of aids and availability of treatment are growing in south_africa , but nation is still in serious trouble because people are not changing their sexual behavior . estimated one million south_africans have already died from aids , and four to five million people are infected with hiv . women are about three times more likely than men to become infected .
 boeing_co agreed to pay its new chief executive w james_mcnerney jr total compensation package that could top $ 53 million to wrest him away from 3m . package essentially replaces one that mcnerney held at 3m , and to collect its full value he will have to stay at boeing at least six years . mcnerney can begin to sell 3m stock options valued at nearly $ 30 million now that he has left company .
 growing number of wall street banks , private equity firms and hedge funds are coming to 12-day cannes film festival to try to arrange and finance entertainment deals . more money is streaming into industry , and that has helped raise number of american firms present at festival , which is up 7 percent this year , compared with 3 percent rise in overall participants . merrill_lynch , citigroup , royal_bank_of_scotland and jpmorgan chase as well as hedge funds like atticus capital and various companies backed by likes of providence_equity_partners and texas_pacific_group are at festival , competing for deals . relativity media says it has done more than $ 4 billion in ` slate ' financing , where outside investors put cash into series of films , rather than one picture .
 labor department reports unemployment rate rose to 6.4 percent in june , highest in nine years , as economy lost 30,000 jobs for annual total of 236,000 . 70,000 nonfarm jobs were lost in may , far higher than 17,000 reported initially . graphs . democrats charge pres bush 's tax cut has had little effect . white_house insists boost is yet to come .
 article on new_york_city as major jewelry manufacturing and sales industry site as well as shelter for largest concentration of jewel thieves . police and fbi say bands of 10 to 20 thieves , most of them illegal immigrants from colombia , ecuador and peru , live in jackson_heights , queens . case involving catalina_palacios , owner of tru kinny jewelry store in jackson_heights , and jeweler john_sergio_salguero , who have been charged with stealing $ 450,000 worth of jewels from salesman identified only as sam , detailed .
 analysis of efforts by bush administration to persuade un security council to soften its opposition to war in iraq . contends pres george_bush may have set new standard for avoiding war impossibly high by declaring that he would be satisfied only with iraq 's complete disarmament and saddam_hussein 's departure . notes chief un weapons inspectors hans_blix and mohamed_elbaradei have no mandate to change baghdad government .
 labor department reports that nation 's employers added 288,000 jobs in april , offering clear evidence that pace of hiring is finally picking up speed in response to nation 's strengthening economy . increase in new jobs in april after addition of 337,000 jobs in march brings total employment in us above where it was when economic recovery officially began nearly two and half years ago . unemployment in april edged down only slightly , to 5.6 percent from 5.7 percent in march , suggesting that there is still plenty of slack in labor market .
 texas gov rick_perry pardons 35 people , 31 of them black , arrested in 1999 , tulia , in drug sting based solely on word of undercover agent tom_coleman , who has since been charged with perjury . arrests decimated town 's small black community . jeff_blackburn , lawyer for many of people pardoned , charges texas panhandle regional narcotics trafficking task force spurred coleman to make largest number of cases using whatever methods he choose to get maximum funding .
 people of buyat_bay region on island of sulawesi in indonesia are divided on cause of mysterious lumps , skin rashes , dizziness and other ailments afflicting them . some blame pollution from nearby goldmine operated by denver-based newmont_mining_corp and demand government relocate them . government recently announced $ 117 million suit against newmont , and six newmont executives , including two americans , face criminal charges . environmental groups and newmont mobilize opposing camps i n buyat_bay , deepening animosity .
 court battle between parker_&_waichman and napoli_bern law firms heats up during arguments in state_supreme_court in manhattan over settlement in case involving people who had taken wyeth 's diet drug combination fen-phen . parker_&_waichman filed suit more than three_years_ago , claiming that its share of $ 13.6 million settlement , reported to be more than $ 5 million , was not enough and that napoli_bern favored its direct clients over clients referred from other firms when distributing funds .
 secretary of state condoleezza_rice arrives in ottowa for meetings with prime min paul_martin , who has accused united_states of making ` mockery ' of trade rules . most important source of canada 's anger is import duties that us imposes on canadian softwood lumber . us says canada subsidizes its lumber industry , but canada has appealed under rules set up by north_american_free_trade agreement and won every ruling on matter .
 excerpts from new crime novels set in new_york_city : an hour to kill by karin_yapalater , fat ollie 's book : a novel of the 87th precinct by ed_mcbain , martin_quinn : a novel of suspense by anthony_lee , justice : a novel of the nypd by dan_mahoney and tongue tied : a donald_stracher mystery by richard_stevenson .
 air travelers who have endured full flights and 15 percent increase in fares this_year are aggressively searching for bargains online , and recent drop in fares suggests that they are beginning to have some effect . one analyst estimates that 25 percent of air travelers consult online newsletters and other sources of special deals before buying , up from 17 percent in 2005 . in long term , sharp fare increases this year will probably be anomaly , resulting in large part from sharp contraction of airline fleets brought on by bankruptcies and post-9 / 11 drop in air travel .
 yelena_baturina , who runs real estate and construction empire in russia that forbes_magazine reported is worth $ 1.1 billion and who is also married to mayor of moscow , tried -- and for a time -- succeeded -- in blocking article in russian language edition of forbes which featured her on its cover . episode led to resignation of maksim_kashulinksy , forbes ' editor in russia and once again raised questions about intimidation of press in russia . baturina threatened to sue axel_springer that publishes forbes in russia , saying she was misquoted . baturina says she hopes kashulinsky would reconsider his resignation .
 bechtel_group , one of world 's biggest engineering and construction companies , drops out of running for contract to rebuild iraqi oil industry , as other competitors have begun to conclude that that bidding process favors one company already working in iraq , halliburton . halliburton 's role in rebuilding has been under political scrutiny because company was formerly headed by vice pres dick_cheney . bush administration and army_corps_of_engineers , which is overseeing iraqi oil reconstruction effort , have repeatedly said halliburton does not have inside track .
 korea university_assoc_prof_b_r_myers op-ed article contends that to north_korea , diplomacy is another form of war . holds that under leadership of kim_jong_il , foreign_ministry has bullied un into submission and outwitted us into providing food aid while pyongyang was developing formidable nuclear arsenal . maintains that us should start paying as much attention to north_korea 's official rhetoric as north_korea does to america 's .
 connecticut officials are concerned over forecasts of harsh winter and possibility that home heating oil costs could rise 30 percent this year . federal fuel assistance for low-income connecticut households is expected to drop $ 5.9 million , to $ 37.4 million this winter under proposed federal budget . as many as 13,000 people will be dropped from federal energy assistance program and remaining 66,300 will receive less aid than last year unless funding is increased .
 russian federal energy agency head sergei_oganesyan comes to defense of yukos , urging legal authorities to unfreeze company 's bank accounts . says aim is to prevent stoppage of oil wells , since yukos is 20 percent of output and other companies can not pick up slack . yukos produces about 1.7 million barrels of oil per day , or about 2 percent of world 's supply .
 five buildings in office park in ardsley , ny , that was once us headquarters of ciba-geigy pharmaceutical company are sold for $ 24 million to millsaw_realty , partnership of purdue_pharma_of_stamford , conn , and davis companies of boston . purdue_pharma had earlier purchased three of nine buildings in complex , which is known as ardsley_park_science and technology center . millsaw acquired five buildings from ardsley_partners , which is led by jon_l_halpern . halpern photo .
 joseph_berger column on plight of maria_aposporos , native of sparta , greece , who won connecticut_supreme_court ruling that prohibited city of stamford from taking her diner , curley 's , by eminent domain . mayor dannel_malloy , who seeks democratic gubernatorial nomination , defends city 's actions in erecting chain-link fence around three sides of diner , blocking access to parking lot and dumpster and ticketing customers .
 article on veteran actress-singer-dancer charlotte d ' amboise , who has established herself as kind of uber-replacement for broadway musical stars . since christina_applegate broke her foot while performing at cadillac_palace theater in chicago , d ' amboise has taken over lead role in boston previews of revival of sweet charity . it remains unclear whether applegate or d ' amboise will open show on broadway .
 bill and melinda_gates foundation , which has given nearly $ 100 million to crease dozens of small high schools in new_york_city , urges city officials to come up with comprehensive plan to help city 's large high schools . bloomberg_administration has poured resources into opening small schools and is coming under increasing criticism for neglecting and overcrowding the big schools , which still serve more than 90 percent of city 's 300,000 high school students .
 former pres bill_clinton , wife , hillary , and daughter , chelsea , appear to have made strides as family in last six years , judging by photo taken on august 17_, 1998 , day after clinton announced he had been lying about affair with monica_lewinsky , and another recent one of family walking up steps of metropolitan museum of art to celebrate publication of his memoir , my life .
 novartis plans to buy hexal of germany and its affiliate eon labs of new_york for $ 8.4 billion in cash , creating world 's biggest maker of generic drugs . hexal would bring novartis more than 120 new products , while eon would bring low-cost copy of popular antidepressant and extensive pipeline of new generic medicines . novartis says together with sandoz , novartis 's generic drug unit , companies would have more than $ 5 billion in sales , and would command 10 percent of estimated $ 100 billion market for low-priced copies of brand-name drugs by 2010 .
 makers of consumer goods are beginning to devote more of their budgets to online marketing and are offering coupons that customers can print out at home and redeem at store . consumers downloaded about 242 million coupons in 2002 , 111 percent more than in 2001 , and they redeemed 7.6 million of them , fourfold increase .
 supreme court agrees to decide whether individual retirement accounts have protection under bankruptcy laws , which were drafted before ira 's became important vehicle for retirement savings and whose ambiguity on issue has led to contradictory rulings in federal courts around country . case before court is appeal by richard and betty_jo_rousey , arkansas couple approaching retirement age , who tried to shield $ 65,000 in their two ira accounts when they filed joint bankruptcy petition in 2001 .
 pres bush calls continued fighting in iraq ` point of testing in the war on terror ' and vows united_states will not back down there or anywhere it faces violent islamic extremism , speech , american_legion convention , st louis . bush , in broad defense of his foreign policy , suggests pacifying iraq , hunting down al_qaeda in afghanistan and bringing peace to middle_east are all part of larger struggle against terrorists fearful of democracy and civilized values . holds failing to fight terrorists abroad would expose us to attacks at home .
 news corp and nbc_universal will distribute their latest video fare on aol , yahoo , msn and myspace , which together reach about 96 percent of internet 's audience in us . deal is challenge to youtube and other online video sites . video content will be supported by advertising and be free to viewers . viewers will be able to edit content and post their own videos as well as buy downloads of movies from 20th_century fox and universal studios . nbc_universal chief executive jeff_zucker and news_corp president peter_a_chernin comment .
 defense sec donald_h_rumsfeld , in his first comments on two major investigative reports issued at pentagon , incorrectly says there was no evidence that iraqi prisoners had been abused during interrogations . reports , one by panel rumsfeld appointed and one by three army generals , made clear that some abuses occurred during interrogations , that others were intended to soften up prisoners who were to be questioned , and that many intelligence personnel involved in interrogations were implicated in abuses . rumsfeld photo .
 police arrest larme price , who they say has shot and killed four shopkeepers without provocation in brooklyn and queens since early february . say he confessed to slayings and said he was motivated by desire to kill people of middle_eastern descent after terror attacks of sept 11 . only oe of four victims , all foreign-born men , was from middle_east .
 senior employment resources in annandale , va , is one of many agencies for older adults seeking temporary or permanent jobs . photo . bls data show 16.4 percent of us workers , more than 40 million people , were 55 or older in 2005 , figure that will rise to twenty percent by 2015 -lrb- special section , retirement -rrb- .
 lawrence m small steps down as secretary of smithsonian institution after internal audit shows museum complex paid for his routine use of lavish perks . governing board quickly and unanimously accepts his resignation , and names christian samper as acting secretary . small , who led smithsonian since jan 2000 , will not receive severance package . announcement of his resignation comes four days after sen charles e grassley_persuaded_senate to freeze $ 17 million increase in smithsonian 's financing , citing what he called ` out-of-control spending ' .
 edgar_bronfman jr and group of private equity firms raise about $ 554 million in initial offering of 32.6 million shares of warner_music_group after cutting price to $ 17 a share from planned range of $ 22 to $ 24 . offering puts warner music initial market capitalization around $ 2.4 billion , not counting debt . that represents premium over price they paid time_warner for unit , but whether stock market investors will be won over is another question . price drop keeps offering from generating enough money to fulfill plans for reducing debt and bolstering existing operations .
 amtrak proposes package of changes at senate_commerce_subcommittee_hearing , seeking additional money from states and commuter rail lines that operate on its tracks . proposal raises possibility of allowing other companies to take over some services or run trains . in exchange , amtrak asks congress for $ 1.8 billion for next fiscal year , 50 percent more than it is receiving . bush adm wants to stop all subsidies unless congress reorganizes amtrak . senators call for changes but also support continued amtrak subsidies .
 conference board reports its index of consumer confidence dropped to 97.7 in april , from 103 in march . national_association_of_realtors says sales of new homes rose sharply by 12.2 percent in march and hit record annual pace of 1.43 million . unexpected surge came despite slightly higher mortgage rates last month . sales of existing homes climbed 1 percent in march and have climbed 4.9 percent over last year .
 nathaniel_philbrick op-ed article on two potent american icons : bob_dylan and plymouth rock , and a certain kinship between them . says that just as dylan emerged full-blown onto new_york folk scene in 1970s , claiming shadowy and , it turned out , apocryphal past , so did plymouth rock suddenly come to attention of american people in manner that smacks of dubious self-invention .
 google says it will raise $ 4 billion war chest with new stock offering . announcement stirs widespread speculation in silicon_valley that google will move aggressively into businesses well beyond web searching and search-based advertising . company expects to collect $ 4.04 billion by selling 14,159,265 million class a shares , based on aug 17 closing of $ 285.10 .
 spain 's banco_bilbao_vizcaya_argentaria will buy south_texas_banking_group_laredo_national_bancshares , heating up race by global banks to serve hispanics living in us . banco bilbao says $ 850 million purchase will give it access to potential market of some five million hispanics in south_texas . banco bilbao 's chairman-chief executive francisco gonzalez comments .
 six months after heroic efforts saved dresden art treasures from flood , thousands of works are still crammed in museum hallways and rooms . curators and directors fault saxony government for failing to provide $ 30 million storage facility designed to protect art , allotting only $ 3 million to restore original , obviously unsafe , underground storage space . germany 's economic problems are seen as cause for lack of funding .
 prime min tony_blair fails to persuade french pres jacques chirac to endorse second un security council resolution explicitly endorsing war against iraq . two meet in le touquet at start of week of hectic diplomacy on iraq . schedule detailed . pres bush calls russian pres vladimir_putin on hot line to share us assessments .
 new_york state attorney general eliot_spitzer undertakes investigation of 1950 oil spill that seeped into brooklyn homes and newtown_creek , and lag in cleanup by exxonmobil that started in 1990 . house of representatives has approved bill requiring federal study of spill . residents have filed suit against exxonmobil , bp and chevron corporation , companies that owned or currently own industrial sites from which spill has spread . 2004 suit by riverkeeper against exxonmobil has been joined by several city officials .
 editorial suggests strategy to pres bush for avoiding disaster in iraq : fire secretary of defense_donald_rumsfeld . clarify that us will not keep permanent bases in iraq . demand that iraq 's prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki start process of reconciliation talks among nation 's politicians . stabilize baghdad . promote discussion among iraq 's neighbors iran , syria and saudi_arabia . acknowledge truth and pursue realistic options .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column holds that pres bush did not give inch on iraq during second presidential debate with sen john_kerry . contends that even though his own report stated that un sanctions had worked to defang saddam_hussein , bush insisted that sanctions were not working and un was not effective at removing hussein .
 bush campaign suspends broadcast advertising until next month , after spending $ 85 million to attack sen john_kerry 's credentials and ideology . 90-day campaign to weaken kerry , which included record spending on television , began on march 2 , after kerry effectively nailed down nomination . offensive was unusual in its early timing , toughness and decision of bush to personally engage opponent so far in advance of november election . bush appears to have succeeded in planting doubts about firmness of kerry 's convictions according to variety of polls , but those polls also show bush and kerry tied .
 public lives interview with saru_jayaraman , director of restaurant opportunities center of new_york . photo . small nonprofit group got cite and park avenue cafe to settle lawsuits over alleged discrimination and failure to pay overtime to 23 employees , mostly immigrants from mexico and bangladesh . center itself plans to open restaurant , colors , on lafayette street , to be owned and run by workers . jayaraman is daughter of indian immigrants who graduated from yale_law_school and harvard 's kennedy_school_of_government .
 governments across middle_east largely keep silent about extraordinary appearance of arab leader -- saddam_hussein -- in the dock . some in arab countries outside iraq are pleased to see dictator being arraigned , but many others say court appearance merely extends sense of arab humiliation that grew out of american invasion . foreign ministers in egypt and jordan refuse to comment . sole official voice supporting trial comes from kuwait , where american invasion of iraq is seen as revenge for hussein 's invasion of kuwait in 1990 .
 pres bush will propose substantial savings in medicare in his 2007 budget , stepping up his efforts to rein in growing costs of social insurance programs . administration officials and health care lobbyists say bush will try to reduce projected medicare payments to hospitals and other health care providers by $ 30 billion to $ 35 billion in next five years . say bush intends to seek further increases in medicare premiums for high-income people , beyond those already scheduled to take effect next year . many of bush 's proposals follow recommendations from medicare payment advisory commission .
 defense sec donald h rumsfeld stops in zabreb , croatia , during four-day european trip to promote country 's efforts to join nato and to pay tribute to croatia 's security forces , which are fighting terrorism in afghanistan . rumsfeld 's visit comes less than three months after governing party regains power . under prime min ivo_sanader party has purged extremists and has embraced pro-american foreign policy .
 corporate management consultants continue to do plenty of traveling despite economic problems . consulting magazine survey shows third log 51,000 to 100,000 miles annually , and another third say they log 101,000 to 500,000 miles per year . about 3 percent say they rack up more than 500,00 miles per year . travel accommodations preferred by consultants discussed .
 timothy noah article on books that focus on presidency of george_w_bush and reflect polarization it has engendered . comments on bush must go : the top ten reasons why george_bush does n't deserve a second term by bill press . losing america : confronting a reckless and arrogant presidency by robert_c_byrd . sore winners -lrb- and the rest of us -rrb- in george_bush 's america by john_powers . misunderestimated : the president battles terrorism , john_kerry , and the bush haters by bill_sammon . a man of faith : the spiritual journey of george w bush by david_aikman . a matter of character : inside the white_house_of_george_w bush by ronald_kessler . and the bushes : portrait of a dynasty by peter and rochelle_schweizer .
 gen richard_b_myers emerges as one of defense secretary donald_rumsfeld 's chief defenders amid calls for his resignation . faults senior administration officials for their criticism of gen eric_shinseki , who held mission in iraq would require much larger force than was ultimately committed . it is first time since myers 's retirement that he has publicly weighed in on adminstration 's handling of shenseki .
 army 's 45th medical company is one of four airborne medical evacuation units supporting 130,000 american troops in iraq . dog days of aug end abruptly for unit after fighting renews in najaf and in sadr_city . flying medevac missions is intensely hazardous undertaking in iraq . unarmed black hawk air ambulances frequently come under ground fire . one mission described .
 deal for beijing vantone_real_estate_co to lease top five floors of 7 world trade center is disputed . developer larry_silverstein claims deal has collapsed , citing company 's failure to meet deadline for posting security deposit . company and supporters at partnership for new_york_city say deal is on and that they hope to deliver $ 45 million letter of credit to silverstein shortly . people involved say dispute may have to do with possibility of getting higher rent from another tenant .
 senate_foreign_relations_committee , in widening review of inquiry into john_r_bolton 's nomination to be ambassador to united_nations , intends to conduct formal interviews in next 10 days with as many as two dozen people . those to be interviewed include former central intelligence agency deputy director john_e_mclaughlin and former assistant secretary of state john_s_wolf . both men have been described by others as having clashed with bolton on personnel matters related to intelligence .
 pres hugo_chavez 's government and his opponents are ready to discuss two proposals put forth by former pres jimmy_carter to end devastating national strike in venezuela . mediator in talks says two sides will meet on jan 31 , along with representatives from co-called group of friends , which includes united_states , brazil , mexico , chile , spain and portugal .
 molson_cos and chairman eric h molson are under unusually intense public scrutiny in wake of earnings drop . deputy chairman r ian_molson , who controls 10 percent of votes , is challenging his cousin , eric , who controls 45 percent . several of company 's biggest outside shareholders plan to vote against slate of three directors nominated to represent holders of nonvoting stock .
 interview with writer daniel_handler , aka lemony snicket , who is in new_york promoting two new works : the grim grotto , 11th installment in his hugely successful series of gothic children 's books , series of unfortunate events , and rick , independent movie unsparing in language and sexuality that he wrote seven or eight years ago that is opening at angelika film center .
 lawyers in new jersey , prompted by conflicting reports by new jersey , bergen_county and essex_county bar associations , are debating role and merits of arbitration , which has been required in civil cases in state for two decades . under new jersey system , arbitration is not binding and either side can ask for regular trial after arbitrator rules .
 vice pres cheney , firing up republican base in ohio , casts doubt on whether sen john_kerry is strong enough to fight terrorism , invoking specter of terrorists attacking american cities . photo . lists pres bush 's measures to protect country . kerry campaign asks how cheney has ` audacity ' to question whether decorated veteran is tough and aggressive enough to keep america safe . atty gen john_ashcroft_tells_chamber_of_commerce ` hand of providence ' and justice_department have prevented new terrorist attacks . cheney also rebuts kerry charge that bush would privatize social security .
 us and china say north_korea has committed to returning eventually to multinational negotiations on its nuclear program but does not set date , raising speculation that aim is to defuse talk of un sanctions . north korean envoys make statements during meeting in new_york with us diplomats joseph_detrani and jim_foster . american and asian officials are skeptical . asst sec christopher r hill tells members of congress of frustration that china has not exerted more pressure .
 eight marines are killed and nine others wounded near abu_ghraib prison west of baghdad when suicide car bomb rams into their convoy , resulting in deadliest day for american forces in last six months . marines later report ninth combat death . insurgents stage their first major assault on news media organization by detonating car bomb outside baghdad offices of popular arab news network , killing at least 7 people and wounding 19 others . american military is making final preparations for all-out invasion of falluja in hopes that overrunning insurgent sanctuaries there would quell guerrilla war across iraq and secure city for country 's first democratic elections , scheduled for jan .
 prime min ariel_sharon says israel is strengthening its military presence in northern gaza_strip and will keep troops there until palestinians stop firing rockets into israel . in five days of often intense clashes in and around jabaliya refugee camp , about 60 palestinian have been killed , including militants and civilians . on israeli side , two soldiers and three civilians have been killed .
 oncologic drugs advisory committee , food_and_drug_administration advisory panel , withholds recommendation for cancer drugs genasense developed by genta_inc and rsr13 developed by ailos therapeutics . vote is setback for aventis , french drug company that is about to be acquired by sanofi-synthelabo . aventis has marketing rights to genasense , which it acquired two years ago for $ 135 million up front and total payments that could reach $ 480 million .
 french law permits retail stores to run sales only twice a year , in jan and aug . 42 percent of french set aside money during year for sale time , and 56 percent will spend less money on essentials to buy things during sale season . fierce merchandising offensive lasts for frantic four to six weeks .
 white_house budget director joshua_b_bolten , who oversees federal government 's $ 2.3 trillion annual budget , is spending huge portions of his time arm-twisting congress into coming up with $ 87 billion that pres bush wants over next year for operations in iraq and afghanistan , most of which is to go to securing and rebuilding iraq -lrb- white_house letter -rrb- .
 land-rich outdoor history museums are finding new income sources . colonial williamsburg foundation is building additional 34,000 square feet of shops and offices in its merchants square complex . shops bring in annual sales of $ 500 to $ 600 per square foot . office building is being developed on grounds of hagley_museum and library , industrial history museum in wilmington , del .
 houston jury sentences dr clara_harris to 20 years in prison for attacking and killing her husband , dr david_harris , with her car in hotel parking lot in july 2002 . fines her $ 10,000 . finds that harris acted with ` sudden passion , ' meaning she must serve half of 20-year term before being eligible for parole .
 fox television announces that wwor / channel 9 , which moved from new_york to secaucus , nj , after losing court battle in mid-1980 ` s and was absorbed by fox in 2001 , will move much of its secaucus operations into rupert_murdoch_'s_news_corp headquarters in midtown manhattan in 2005 . change means that channel 9 presence in new jersey will be reduced to news bureau . new jersey lawmakers send letter urging federal_communications_commission chairman michael_powell to evaluate relocation because of channel 9 's mandated relationship with northern new jersey .
 name of four-mile stretch of road on outskirts of beaumont , tex , jap road , has long angered many descendants of japanese settlers who arrived century ago . one of them , sandra_nakata_tanamachi , along with thomas_kuwahara , filed complaint with two federal agencies -- dept of housing and urban development and dept_of_transportation -- trying to keep county from getting federal money unless road 's name is changed . civil rights organizations have voiced support for changing name .
 psychoanalyst dr sebastiano_santostefano and wife susan , also therapist , treat traumatized children in homey setting of house and garden in wellesley , mass . santostefano , who formerly directed program at mclean_hospital in belmont , founded institute_for_child and adolescent development in belief that real progress requires more time than insurance restrictions allow . interview .
 ann louise_bardach op-ed article says imprisonment of 75 cuban writers and dissidents and execution of three ferry hijackers are attempt by fidel_castro to strengthen hardliners in cuba and in exile community in miami , where there has been growing sentiment in favor of negotiations with havana . says castro 's hold on power would be threatened if us embargo were lifted and americans were allowed to visit .
 douglas a warney is freed after spending ten years in new_york prison after eldred johnson jr is arrested for same crime , murder of william_beason in 1996 . similarities of cases influences authorities in tennessee to stay execution of sedley_alley for rape and murder of marine suzanne_collins in 1985 . both cases were marked by disputed confessions and lack of dna testing .
 members of lebanon 's anti-syrian opposition point to aug 26 meeting between prime min rafik_hariri and syrian pres bashar al-assad as fateful . assad is said to have threatened to break lebanon and ordered hariri to amend lebanese constitution to give syrian favorite pres emile_lahoud another three years in office . druze leader walid_jumblatt says meeting was hariri 's condemnation to death . hariri resigned government on oct 20 and plunged into planning for spring parliamentary elections , but was killed by massive bomb on feb 14 .
 senate_intelligence_committee_report_cites_defense_dept 's concerns about credibility of iraqi defector code-named curveball , whom sec_of_state_colin_l_powell cited in his report to united_nations_security_council on mobile bioweapons labs in iraq . cia downplayed concerns , and powell did not hear of them . all four sources cited in powell 's report have now been discredited . report concludes cia does not readily accept information from other agencies and does not always share information with those who might contradict it .
 auto industry is growing increasingly intent on coming up with vehicles for ultrarich . latest among crop of new models aimed at chauffeured class is 1,000-horsepower prototype from cadillac division of general_motors , the sixteen , which was shown at north american international auto show in detroit . car is pet project of gm vice president robert_a_lutz . other all-frills shown at show include phantom , first rolls-royce produced by company 's owner bmw , new inexpensive bentley from volkswagen , the continental_gt , which will cost $ 160,000 when it goes on sale in 2004 , and maybach from daimlerchrysler .
 alan cowell letter from europe on fiftieth anniversary of conquest of mount everest by edmund_hillary and tenzing_norgay . photo . triumph , coming as london prepared for queen elizabeth_ii 's coronation , brought flush of pride to britain , recapturing glory of empire for moment and brightening dreary years after world war ii .
 rev james_m_lawson jr , black civil rights activist who was expelled from vanderbilt_university in 1960 , is back at university , this time as visiting professor . was expelled for his role in helping organize lunch-counter sit-in that made nashville a springboard for generation of civil rights activists . expulsion of lawson , methodist divinity student who was one of nation 's leading scholars of civil disobedience and gandhian nonviolence , tarnished vanderbilt 's reputation for years . university officials apologized to lawson long ago .
 many contributors who in past have donated to campaigns of gov george_e_pataki of new_york now decline donating to his fellow republican john faso and instead support democrat eliot_spitzer . many of those giving to spitzer are wealthy individuals or institutional givers with interests in albany . spitzer leads in polls by large margin . has raised $ 40.7 million to just $ 3.7 million for faso .
 defense dept , which controls 28 million acres of land across nation that it uses for combat exercises and weapons testing , is moving on variety of fronts to reduce requirements that it safeguard environment on that land . it has won exemptions in congress in last two years from parts of environmental protection laws and has sought in recent years to exempt military activities , for three years , from compliance with parts of others . pentagon 's enthusiasm for environmental ethos has waxed and waned over past 15 years .
 france celebrates chinese new year on eve of visit by chinese president hu_jintao , jan 26 , coinciding with 40th anniversary of countries ' diplomatic relations . france 's ` year of china ' promotion features exhibits , parades , celebrations and red lights on eiffel tower . france hopes to cultivate china as economic and diplomatic partner to offset us role as world 's sole superpower . fewer than 500,000 chinese live in france , and less than a tenth of them are in paris .
 new_york_city rebukes education dept for allowing lee d mccaskill , principal of brooklyn technical high school , to retire days before completion of investigation into his daughter 's improper enrollment in brooklyn elementary school . mccaskill and his wife , cathy_furman_mccaskill , who teaches at another city school , hid fact that they live in new jersey . used address of lawyer friend robin_kelly_sheares , who signed fraudulent lease that they used to avoid paying tuition as out of state residents . mccaskill is still being paid $ 125,282 salary . education dept reassigns mrs_mccaskill and seeks to fire her . sheares role is reported to state court system 's ethics commission .
 republican party in suffolk_county , ny , for first time in more than decade , is seeking new party chairman and county executive candidate for november elections . republican power has shifted in past month to islip town supervisor peter_mcgowan and brookhaven supervisor jay_lavalle . prospects for county executive include mcgowan , assemblywoman patricia_acampora and county clerk edward romaine . democrats , meanwhile , hope to fill power vaccuum .
 egyptian authorities sweep through villages on outskirts of cairo , detaining more than 200 people day after attacks that left seven people wounded and three attackers dead . police say most detainees are being investigated for connection to local terrorist networks . say one of dead attackers was suspect in deadly bombing apr 7 at cairo 's main bazaar .
 new_york_city subway riders complain of frequent breakdowns of vending machines that dispense metrocards . transit workers are called to fix machines roughly 800 times a day in system with total of 1,637 machines . some repairs involve repeated problems at same machines and most of time machine is not completely out of order . officials estimate about one-third of all machines are getting some type of service each day . machine repairs have nearly doubled since tokens were eliminated in may . new_york_city transit hopes to increase its crew of machine maintainers by 60 percent . repair graphs .
 sen charles_e_schumer , democrat from brooklyn , wins re-election to second term by enormous margin , more than 70 percent , which surpasses record of late sen daniel_moynihan and fuels talk of gubernatorial race . republican howard_d_mills get 24 percent , conservative_marilyn_f_o'grady 3 percent . photos . schumer does well across state , aided by strong turnout , weak opposition and six years of relentless traveling among constituents .
 washington buzzes over leak of confidential memorandum by defense_sec donald h rumsfeld that offers bleak assessment of american forces in afghanistan and iraq . content of memo contrasts with rumsfeld 's public statements that are optimistic and dismissive of complaints . political analysts say they believe rumsfeld wrote , and leaked , memo to position himself in struggle with pres george_w_bush administration for control of postwar policy in iraq .
 pres bush has made health savings accounts one of his central campaign remedies for nation 's health care problems , but so far employers and workers have been slow to accept accounts as alternative to conventional health insurance . few employers are offering new plans . unitedhealth_group , which provides health insurance to more than 18 million workers , expects only 150,000 of those employees to choose health savings accounts for 2005 . aetna says only 38 of hundreds of employers it covers are offering savings plans for 2005 . pres bush is expected to discuss plans again in domestic policy debate with sen john_kerry . nonpartisan health policy experts say plans are apparently too new and untested to appeal to many employers and may simply not be financially feasible for middle-income familites .
 law enforcement officials in santa_barbara_county , calif , say they have issued arrest warrant for pop singer michael_jackson on multiple counts of child molesting . sheriff jim_anderson says he and dist atty thomas_w_sneddon jr are working with jackson 's lawyers to arrange his surrender . says they would ask that bail be set at $ 3 million and that jackson surrender his passport . refuses to give name , age or sex of child involved , or say when or where alleged molestation took place . jackson is in las_vegas filming music special for cbs_television . his spokesman calls charges ` scurrilous and totally unfounded ' . jackson avoided criminal charges in similar case 10 years ago .
 article on rap scene in newark and essex_county , nj , as region attempts to reclaim its central role in hip-hop culture . older rappers like james_stokes and younger ones , like his daughter , tanyshwia , flo_brown and shonda_clinton comment . organizers of national hip-hop political convention , opening at rutgers_university on june 16 , expect delegates from 20 states .
 bronx neighbors of aleshia_smith describe struggles of single parent with six children . talk of efforts by neighborhood to help smith . comments come in wake of death of smith 's 4-year-old son quachon browne , who , smith says , died days after being struck by falling television . police are questioning smith and her live-in boyfriend jose_calderon .
 wendy moonan antiques column . auction of furniture and decorative arts collected by diane and norman_bernstein to be held at sotheby_'s . doyle new_york will auction entire inventory of old versailles antique shop in new_york . leonard fox_gallery_features exhibition of french art deco textiles from cora_ginsburg_gallery .
 three months after arrest of john_muhammad and john_lee_malvo for sniper attacks in washington , dc , area and elsewhere that killed 15 people and wounded 6 , survivors struggle painfully to stitch lives back together again . some are learning to walk and talk again , while others struggle with scars and lingering pain . spouses of victims are raising children without partner , managing family finances minus one income and dealing with court appearances to face men accused in shootings . some comment .
 rocket attack aimed at passing american convoy in baghdad kills 4 iraqis and wounds 14 others . rocket comes from direction of sadr_city slum . in two separate incidents , eight workers for egyptian cellphone company orascom , operating in iraq as iraqna , are kidnapped in baghdad and falluja . most of recent kidnappings have been done for profit .
 news analysis of situation involving cbs_news anchor dan_rather , whose report on program 60 minutes ii about pres bush 's national_guard_service has created brouhaha because of questions about authenticity of documents . cites examples of rather 's reporting through years that has caused conservatives to charge rather with partisanship . bill_kovach , committee of concerned journalists , say cbs has not made case and should have been more careful about confirming validity of documents .
 brazil has first case challenging agricultural subsidies before world trade organization , accusing us of breaking trade rules by giving american cotton growers and agribusiness $ 1.54 billion in annual subsidies . bush administration 's refusal to turn over documents to wto could increase chances of ruling in favor of brazil . subsidies have helped make us world 's top cotton producer , with 40 percent of global market .
 eight-day siege of falluja is most sustained period of street-to-street fighting that american troops have encountered in iraq , but is probably kind they will see again . price for americans is 51 dead and 425 wounded , number that may yet increase but that already exceeds toll from any other battle . savagery of urban warfare and grinding struggle to root out guerrillas as experienced by bravo company of first battalion , eighth marines , described in detail . company of 150 took 36 casualties , including 6 dead .
 new_york_yankees notebook discusses pitcher andy_pettitte , who will test free-agent market and possibly look at houston astros to be closer to his family in houston -lrb- tex -rrb- . pitcher david_wells could still be brought back by yankees , even though team declined his $ 6 million option . shortstop derek_jeter could undergo surgery on thumb . yankees will consider moving center fielder bernie_williams to left and second baseman alfonso_soriano to outfield .
 tensions build in caracas after venezuelan energy min rafael_ramirez essentially tells exxon that it is no longer welcome in country . statement follows venezuelan congress 's approval of measures to give government control of 32 privately run fields and exxon decides to sell its stake in field to repsol of spain rather than submit to venture controlled by petroleos de venezuela .
 pres bush threatens to veto any bill that scales back medicare 's prescription drug benefit , which becomes available in jan 2006 to millions of elderly and disabled people . estimates showing that benefit will cost $ 724 billion over decade have touched off furor in congress , where lawmakers thought it would cost much less . conservatives seek cutbacks in benefits and cost controls . liberals want government to negotiate prices with drug manufacturers . bush photo .
 former pres ronald_reagan 's state funeral is held at national_cathedral in washington , dc . nearly 4,000 mourners , including four surviving ex-presidents and world leaders past and present , attend funeral . pres bush , former british prime min margaret_thatcher , former canadian prime min brian_mulroney , former pres george_bush and former sen john_c_danforth deliver eulogies . thatcher 's remarks were videotaped in late 2003 because of her own failing health . danforth , ordained episcopal priest , was chosen by nancy_reagan to conduct services after illness sidelined rev billy_graham . funeral caps six days of national mourning for reagan .
 france 's presidential election enters phase of improvisation and even silliness with just 12 days to go , partly owing to absence of any single defining issue and frenzied competition to win over 42 percent of voters who say they are undecided . nicolas_sarkozy , conservative front-runner , appears to be benefiting from uncertainty . segolene royal , socialist , has frittered away advantages that come with running to be first woman elected president of france . francois_bayrou , centrist running third in polls , is criticized on vagueness of his campaign .
 new yorker , for eighth consecutive year , again dominates nominations for national magazine awards . receives 10 nominations in 9 categories , including best magazine for general excellence among magazines with circulation of one million to two million and best of public interest category for three articles by seymour_hersh , including one on abu ghraib prison scandal . other nominees and categories noted .
 french electronics company thomson , which sells appliances under rca brand in us , will combine its television and dvd businesses with those of tcl_international_holdings of china to form what will become world 's largest maker of television sets . combined companies will make 18 million sets per year and generate revenue of $ 3 billion . thomason will own 33 percent of combined company , to be known as tcl-thomson electronics , and tcl will own remaining 67 percent .
 three most populous countries in asia -- china , india and indonesia -- are planting millions of acres of genetically modified crops . several other large asian countries , including japan , thailand , philippines and malaysia , are earmarking billions of dollars for private and government-sponsored research on biotech crops . because there are already 145 million acres planted with genetically modified crops worldwide , developments in asia could pave way for bioengineered crops to dominate world 's food production . but most governments in asia plan to move cautiously before approving use of genetically modified food crops , which are much more controversial than nonfood crops .
 daniel_ortega , former leftist president of nicaragua , stands his best chance to return to power after three failed attempts in last_15_years . ortega is front-runner in race splintered among five candidates . opinion polls give him about 30 percent support . bush administration is supporting former foreign min eduardo_montealegre in nov 5 election .
 david_brooks op-ed says ohio_senate race is preview of 2008 presidential race . says race between rep sherrod_brown , democrat , and sen mike_dewine , republican , is important because each candidate comes from most vibrant strain of his own party . says dewine is independent , party-bucking conservative and brown is economic populist . says candidate that wins ohio will be model for party nationally .
 andre shobey is arrested and charged with shooting man and woman in bronx , stabbing man to death in queens and sexually assaulting and robbing 15-year old girl in manhattan , all in course of just 13 hours . shobey , 45 , has spent most of his adult life in maxinum security prisons for accosting people in elevators , and for raping , robbing , beating and humiliating his victims in one-day crime sprees more than 20 years ago . was most recently released from prison in august 2003 .
 robert a durst takes stand in galveston , tex , where he is being tried for murder of morris_black , and describes his flight from possible prosecution in westchester_county , ny , 21 years ago , when his first wife disappeared . says he was afraid of westchester_county dist atty jeanine_f_pirro , who he says was politically ambitious . tells how he ended up in galveston , disquised as mute woman . contends he killed black in self-defense after stuggle over gun .
 s s fair article about legendary erte -lrb- romain_de_titroff -rrb- , enormously influential fashion figure whose cover illustrations for harper 's bazaar from 1915 to 1937 turned women into femmes_fatale . erte , born in 1892 in st petersburg , is often considered father of art deco . mark_schachner displays portions of his extensive collection at his mill basin delicatessen in brooklyn .
 argentina 's peronist party will offer voters three choices in april presidential election , signaling split within movement resulting from longstanding feud between caretaker pres eduardo_duhalde and former pres carlos_menem . candidates facing menem are gov nestor_kirchner , who has duhalde 's support , and adolfo_rodriguez_saa , who was president for one week in dec 2001 . radical civil union , argentina 's other party , is in equally confusing situaton and some fear that two-party system is in crisis .
 diocese of bridgeport agrees to pay $ 21 million to 40 people who claim they were victims of sexual abuse in cases involving 16 local priests . says that with agreement , it will have paid total of $ 37.7 million to settle 89 claims involving 22 priests and will have resolved most of outstanding claims against it concerning sexual misconduct . bishop william_e_lori , who took over diocese two years ago , apologizes and asks forgiveness .
 mapou , haiti , much of it still under 10 feet of water , is perhaps most devasted place among many damaged and destroyed in floods that killed some 2,000 people in haiti and on its border with dominican_republic . united_nations world food program aide guy gauvreau says magnitude of disaster is much worse than expected . cites enormous gap between aid being delivered and aid needed . many towns and hamlets , home to thousands , remain cut off by mudslides . land denuded of trees added to flooding that followed five feet of rain in two days .
 democratic candidates are staging early and earnest fund-raisers across connecticut in effort to help win back house of representatives or at least capture hefty number of 15 seats needed to do so . of three house seats held by republicans , two -- fourth district held by chris_shays and second held by rob_simmons -- are widely considered to be most vulnerable in country . diane_farrell is running for shays 's seat and joe_courtney is seeking simmons 's .
 nicholas d kristoff op-ed column criticizes pres bush 's policy on north_korea . contends that bush has acquiesced as north_korea builds up its nuclear arsenal . says administration that was panicked about iraq 's virtually nonexistent nuclear programs is blase as north_korea reprocesses plutonium , enriches uranium and gets set to produce up to 200 atomic weapons by 2010 .
 microsoft unveils its long-planned response to google and yahoo in internet search industry , but with uncharacteristically soft-sell approach . debut , taking form of test site , is stark contrast to high-profile introduction microsoft made of its internet explorer browser nine years ago . microsoft director adam_sohn says intention is not to compete with google , but insted to ` delight ' its own customers .
 american military spokesman says american troops killed muharib_abdul_latif_al-jubouri , senior propagandist for al_qaeda in mesopotamia who was involved in kidnapping westerners , including american journalist jill_carroll . claims jubouri was also last one known to have personal custody of tom_fox , american peace activist kidnapped in 2005 and found dead in 2006 . notes that jubouri 's death appears to have spawned confusion about who was killed and breakdown of communication between american and iraqi officials . iraq 's interior_ministry reported killing of even more senior figure from group , abu_ayyub_al-masri , in roughly same area .
 frank rich article notes that while cbs canceled broadcast of the reagans , in response to complaints that it presented unflattering portrait of former first family , hbo still plans to air epic production of tony_kushner 's angels in america , which is directed by mike_nichols and is strong indictment of reagan administration for keeping silent during aids epidemic . contends that criticisms of cbs_program may pale in light of battle that will erupt over hbo presentation of reagan_white_house in program that is powerful and moving .
 fiorina says her groundwork helped turn around hewlett-packard * * * hewlett-packard ` s former chairwoman-chief executive carleton_s_fiorina , in her book tough choices , says company 's strong performance since she was fired in february 2005 has much to do with changes she made . contends company 's 2005 results finally demonstrated that hewlett-packard has been transformed . profits were up 16 percent in 2005 . many people say changes made by mark v hurd , fiorina 's successor , have played big part in improving its performance .
 chinese new year parade in san_francisco has been marred by public battle over chinese_chamber_of_commerce 's decision to exclude practitioners of falun_gong , spiritual movement outlawed in china . dispute has exposed longstanding rift among san_francisco_bay area 's chinese-americans , one that pits those friendly toward china against those who complain about its human rights record or are aligned with taiwan .
 toshiaki_nambu , former advertising man , has become chief priest of yasukuni shrine , place of worship in tokyo where 2.5 million japanese war dead , including 14 war criminals , are enshrined as deities . shrine is source of bitter dispute between japan and china , which like other asian countries invaded by japan , regards shrine as symbol of unrepentant militarism .
 several prominent american political advisers are in britain to help labor party get out the vote to ensure re-election of prime min tony_blair . british are drawing on lessons americans learned through two of most closely fought presidential elections in history -- use of computerized models and consumer data to identify supporters . americans are karen_hicks and joe_trippi , who worked on howard_dean 's campaign , mark_penn , former adviser to hillary and bill_clinton , and clinton pollster stan_greenberg . former john_kerry adviser bob_shrum is adviser to gordon_brown , blair 's possible successor .
 united_states ally pakistan has diverted troops from fight against al_qaeda and taliban in northwest_frontier to baluchistan , where it is meeting opposition from rebel leaders as it tries to develop region 's oil and gas reserves , build pipeline to iran and develop deep sea port to expand trade with china . rebel leaders naweab_akbar_khan_bugti and balach_marri insist they do not oppose development but rather government 's military effort to suppress rights of ethnic baluchis .
 thomas l friedman op-ed column says there are two radical experiments under way in middle_east , one the new palestinian political authority spearheaded by prime min mahmoud_abbas and other the just appointed governing council in iraq . says there is much that fledgling authorities must do to make these gambles pay off , but burden is also on bush administration to help them both if it wants to legitimately speak about creating ` new_middle_east ' .
 nostalgia for stalin resurfaces in russia , as it always does around may holidays , to delight of a few die-hard stalinists and dismay of many more people . ambiguity is represented neatly in person of zurab_tsereteli , closest thing russia has to an official artist , who cast monumental bronze statue of stalin , along with churchill and roosevelt , at their 1945 summit conference at yalta . authorities in yalta -- now part of ukraine , place that suffered greatly under stalin -- declined tsereteli 's gift , as did moscow after public furor . statue is now headed to volgograd , city better known by its wartime name , stalingrad .
 christian conservatives welcome expressions of faith in inauguration of pres bush 's second term . bush , who starts each day with prayer and bible reading , will invoke divine blessings on nation in his address like every president before him . will begin day at private service at st_john_'s_episcopal_church across street from white_house . its pastor , rev luis leon , will deliver invocation at inaugural ceremony . rev kirbyjon_caldwell , african-american pastor of united_methodist_church in houston , will deliver benediction .
 port authority awards $ 10 million to new jersey transit to consider extending platforms in new_york 's penn station into new station in james a farley_post office building , which could pave way for transit agency to become new station 's main tenant , rather than amtrak . amtrak says it will not pay any rent for space in long-planned station named for late sen daniel_moynihan , leaving empire_state_development_corp looking for alternatives . chairman charles_a_gargano explains .
 sen john_kerry begins what aides say will be increasingly visible and combative challenge to pres bush , focusing on iraq and bush 's spending on campaign ads . move amounts to re-emergence of kerry , who largely yielded spotlight to bush after effectively winning democratic nomination . two polls find bush leading kerry . kerry 's campaign is keen to get biographical information to voters through ads designed to refute bush campaign 's characterizations of him .
 pres bush leaves today on four-day trip to belgium , germany and slovakia with goal of easing tensions after quarrel over invasion of iraq . sec_of_state_condoleezza_rice has suggested bush make improving relations with europe his second-term foreign policy priority . tensions remain over war , iran 's suspected nuclear weapons program and american opposition to arms sales to china . bush will attend meetings in brussels at nato and european_union headquarters . bush abhors such formal sessions , and european officials see his visit as underscoring administration 's commitment to european unity .
 nokia says pretax profits fell by only 4 percent in first_quarter_from_year_earlier , less than analysts expected , and net income was up in period . net income was 977 million euros -lrb- $ 1.1 billion -rrb- . company warns revenues in network division , which makes equipment for mobile phone operators , will fall by 15 percent this year , more than previously forecast .
 new york times / cbs_news poll finds americans growing impatient with un and that majority backs military action against iraq in defiance of un security council . 58 percent of americans feel un is doing poor job manging crisis , and 55 percent back invasion even if council refuses to endorse it . 52 percent say inspectors should be given more time to search for evidence of weapons of mass destruction in iraq . poll finds pres bush has been successful , at least at home , in portraying pres saddam_hussein as threat to peace while rallying support for war over rising objections in international community . findings detailed .
 arts briefing column . west bank 's first international_film_festival opens in ramallah . britain 's advertising standards authority , upholding complaint that ad by bmg record label could be interpreted as glorifying gun use , denounces poster depicting singer andre 3000 holding smoking pink gun . body of marlon_brando is cremated at private funeral in los_angeles . there are no plans for any public memorial .
 vagaries of new_york state tax laws have resulted in excessive abatements for luxury co-op and condominium apartments in new_york_city , like co-op at 720 park avenue that is assessed at $ 750,000 and was recently sold by john_e_beerbower , partner at cravath , swaine_&_moore , for $ 20 million . andreas y gruson , chairman of regus_industries , buys brownstone on east 94th street for $ 4.15 million .
 india 's effort to ascend into front ranks of global economy is being hobbled by electricity crisis . scale is staggering in country of more than one billion people . planning commissin of india estimates that 600 million people -- roughly half of population -- are off the electric grid . for those on the grid , there are power cuts and blackouts , especially on hottest days . india has stepped up generation of power in recent years at pace of about 6 percent a year . this is insufficent to keep up with its galloping demand and mere pittance compared with what china adds each year . development of power plants is constrained by lack of access to land , fuel and water . power grid remains weak . many indians take for themselves what state can not provide . transparency international estimated in 2005 that indians paid $ 480 million in bribes to put in new connections or correct bills .
 dr richard a friedman cases column explains how family and friends can sometimes miss diagnosis of bipolar disorder as lively or gloomy temperament rather than illness . bipolar disorder , or manic depression , described . national_institute_of_mental_health recognizes bipolar as potentially fatal illness with 10 to 20 percent of patients committing suicide . studies on prevalence of condition in united_states vary from 1.1 percent of population to as high as 3.7 percent . methods of diagnosing and differences in defining bipolar are seen to account for disparity in statistics .
 patrick_dollard , veteran agent , manager and producer , has spent last five months in one of most dangerous parts of iraq and has been involved in combat . had initially been involved with documentary project with steven_soderbergh and george_clooney in 2005 that was in negotiations with hbo . earlier in year project was dropped by hbo and clooney and soderbergh had both pulled out of project . dollard has caused stir in united_states and abroad as he offers gung-ho views on war through widely circulated email messages and hollywood blog . whether planned documentary will ever see light of day is far from certain .
 fran schumer jersey column on remarkable lives of dr rose prystowsky , 82 , child psychiatrist in nutley , nj , and husband , milton , also 82 , who was pediatric cardiologist . rose and caregiver , carolyn_threadgill , 59 , have died in house fire and milton remains in critical condition . couple raised five sons , all of whom became doctors .
 pres bush affirms his support for a sweeping intelligence-overhaul bill and promises to work with republican leaders of house and senate to push bill through congress next week despite opposition of group_of_powerful_house republicans who have defied white_house . members of policy group for families of victims of sept 11 attacks , called families for a secure america , holds news conference on capitol hill to support border security provisions in intelligence bill .
 todd_harrison , federal prosecutor in case against shahawar_matin_siraj , pakistani immigrant charged with plotting to blow up herald square subway station in manhattan , questions tactics of one of siraj 's defense lawyers . says martin_p_stolar is using trial to build case against police department use of informers in and around city 's mosques , intimating that paid police informer osama eldawoody entrapped siraj . harrison tells judge_nina_m_gershon that protracted focus on eldawoody is irrelevant to criminal case .
 united nations begins program to disarm and demobilize thousands of afghan guerrillas and militia fighters , with pres hamid karzai personally locking away truckload of weapons in kunduz . program is crucial step to dilute power of regional commanders and warlords and to prevent them from influencing political process , particularly elections set for next summer . germany 's lower_house_of_parliament approves legislation expanding scope of country 's peacekeeping mission in afghanistan by sending troops to kunduz .
 securities and exchange commission chief administrative law judge_brenda_p_murray rules that ernst_&_young acted improperly by auditing peoplesoft_inc , company with which it had highly profitable business relationship . bars accounting firm from accepting new audit clients in us for six months . unusual order , which includes $ 1.7 million fine , ends bitter fight in which sec contends that ernst violated rules on auditor independence . murray also criticizes edmund_coulson , ernst partner in charge of independence issues .
 richard_aurelio , former deputy mayor of new_york and retired president of time_warner_new_york_cable_group , says his proudest accomplishment is founding new_york 1 television station.anette sorensen , danish actress , presses on with lawsuit against new_york_city stemming from her arrest in may 1997 for leaving her child outside restaurant in new_york_city while she had drink inside .
 smaller exporters in europe are expressing more and more fear about how rise in value of euro and other currencies and decline in united_states dollar will affect their businesses . euro reaches record high of $ 1.3319 in new_york trading and british pound rises to 12-year high of $ 1.9327 . distress in european industry is increasing pressure on european_central_bank_to_respond , either by intervening in currency market to curb rise of euro or by lowering interest rates .
 east hampton and suffolk_county leaders demand probe to determine whether death of 56-year-old richard_flynn from heart attack could have been averted if he had not been turned away from county_satellite_health_clinic just three days before he died . friends and fellow health-care advocates say that clinic 's services have waned in recent months , other patients have been turned away from appointments or made to wait months and that clinic 's only physician is pediatrician who is there two days a week .
 bush campaign is making serious push for allegiance of african-american clergy , in departure from typical republican campaigns . group of 20 black pastors held news conference in oakland , calif , last aug to endorse pres bush . his campaign has arranged meeting in toledo , ohio , of more than 150 black clergy memers who support his re-election . sen john_kerry fights back , meeting with more than 50 black pastors in philadelphia . strategists from both sides say kerry campaign is determined to step up black pastors ' traditional role in turning out democratic voters and bush campaign would like to negate this .
 primedia_inc 's chief executive tom_rogers is exploring sale of seventeen magazine , largest teenage magazine . primedia 's sole remaining consumer magazine would be new_york , and analysts speculate that primedia , which is controlled by kohlberg_kravis_roberts_&_co , might quit consumer business altogether . primedia reports it has hit its earnings target for 2002 . rogers comments .
 fire roars through narrow_brick_house in bronx , killing nine members of extended family of immigrants from mali , eight of them children . terrified mother throws two of her children from window to neighbors below , then jumps . excluding 9/11 , this is deadliest fire in city since 1990 . fire dept officials say blaze started in cord attached to space heater on ground floor . say row house built in 1901 had no fire escapes and two smoke alarms in building lacked batteries . say help came late because women in house tried to put out fire rather than call 911 . firefighters are able to rescue two children , and several others get out on their own . mayor michael_r_bloomberg says 22 people lived in building . six children are hospitalized with burns . four firefighters and one emergency workers are also hospitalized with minor injuries .
 justice dept declines prosecution after three-year investigation into whether at least four central_intelligence_agency officers lied to lawmakers and superiors about clandestine antidrug air bridge denial program that ended in 2001 with fatal downing of missionary plane in peru . investigation was not directly related to downing of plane , but focused on whether cia officers in peru allowed erosion of safeguards drawn up in consultation with justice_dept . senate_intelligence_committee concluded in 2001 that cia failed to oversee program responsibly , but did not say justice_dept was considering criminal charges . possibility remains of administrative action against officers .
 hwang jang_yop , north_korea 's highest-ranking defector , will arrive in united_states to talk with washington 's elite about inner workings of north_korea 's secretive government . has been under virtual house arrest in seoul , south_korea , for six years . was north 's chief ideologue and served as tutor to kim jong il . has made it clear that he would oppose any deal in which kim gives up his nuclear bombs but remains in charge .
 booming us sales of large homes and sport utility vehicles have offset many of energy savings made over last 30 years . imports accounted for 55 percent of us oil consumption in first_seven_months_of 2003 , compared to only 35 in 1973 at height of arab oil embargo . energy information administration projects that oil imports will rise to 68 percent of total consumption by 2025 , with majority coming from persian_gulf region . loss of momentum toward energy conservation is attributed to drop in oil prices beginning in mid-1980 ` s , which preempted concerns about national security and personal spending .
 hurricane charley rips into florida 's west_coast packing winds of 145 miles hour . it is most intense storm to hit florida since hurricane andrew devastated south_florida in 1992 and worst on west_coast in at least century . state and local officials order evacuation of nearly two million people . storm spares tampa_bay_area , which had expected to be hardest hit . florida officials estimate property damage to be $ 14.5 billion and attribute another $ 2.3 billion in losses to business interruptions . say 337,000 buildings were damaged and 500,000 people left without power .
 mexico , known for low-wage plants that export goods to united_states , is fast being supplanted by china and its hundreds of millions of low-wage workers . job toll is mounting rapidly as more and more plants scale back operations or close . mexico 's $ 67 billion worth of exports to us in 2003 first half still topped china 's , but just barely . mexico 's exports to us were flat in 2002 , while china 's grew 20 percent . mexico , lagging in exports from low-skilled , labor-intensive industries , still leads in big-ticket items . chinese-made products are also flooding mexico .
 final report of 9/11 commission includes call for broad rethinking of american foreign policy toward arab and muslim world , to ensure that terror groups can not find sanctuary in ` least governed , most lawless places ' . lists places from western pakistan to afghanistan to saudi_arabia , yemen , west_africa and southeast_asia , and particularly hard-to-police islands of philippines and indonesia . white_house officials appear surprised by scope of commission 's foreign policy recommendations .
 livingston , nj , manor shopping plaza will be bulldozed to make way for mixed-use development intended to give livingston commercial hub it is now missing . development , to be called livingston town center , is to have 50,000 square feet of stores and 20,000 square feet of offices , with apartments above some of stores , as well as 233-car garage . developer is partnership among new jersey-based eastman_management_corp , jacobs enterprises and roseland property co .
 trustees for medicare and social security will report that two entitlement programs will eventually need more than twice as much money as previously estimated . experts who helped prepare calculations say that new medicare program for prescription drugs could in itself cost up to $ 7 trillion over next 75 years . annual reports on social security and medicare will include new estimates showing that total gap between cost of promised benefits and revenues to pay for them is close to $ 50 trillion . by contrast , bush administration estimated last year that long-term gap was $ 18 trillion over next 75 years .
 pres bush and senate republicans settle long-running dispute over media ownership rules , elminating major stumbling block to congressional approval of $ 330-billion catch-all spending measure covering one-third of all federal programs . deal modifies fcc proposal to allow major networks to own television stations reaching 45 percent of nation 's audience . limit will be 39 percent , rather than rollback to 35 percent that congress sought .
 lt gen lance_smith , deputy commander of american forces in middle_east , says iraqi insurgents are using roadside bombs with increasing effectiveness to disrupt american military operations in iraq . says one of most important militant leaders driven out of falluja , abu_musab_al-zarqawi , is now probably operating in baghdad , orchestrating attacks against american and iraqi forces and communicating with confederates even after losing many of his top lieutenants and his base of operations during falluja offensive .
 growing number of white executives in south_africa are sharing wealth with black partners and potential successors . government calls process black economic empowerment , redressing of decades of deprivation blacks endured under apartheid . ten years of work have not changed south_africa 's boardrooms much . blacks still control only 3 percent of market value of companies listed on johannesburg stock market . whites , who constitute 10 percent of population , still hold 85 percent of all senior management posts . black economic stewardship is edging ahead .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg and gov george e pataki recently led thousands of olympic athletes and their supporters across brooklyn bridge with new_york_city 's official bid for 2012 olympic games . bloomberg says olympics would leave legacy critical to city 's future . critics question major elements of $ 10.6 billion plan , including at least $ 600 million in state and city tax money for olympic stadium on west side that would also be used for new_york jets games and other events . some express concern that city has tied its stadium proposal to other projects like subway extension .
 richard_n_haass , pres bush 's envoy to northern ireland , calls on irish republican army to make ` historical tranformation ' to rescue province 's stalemated peace plan . makes remarks after holding crisis talks in belfast with sinn fein leaders gerry_adams and martin_mcguinness on ira 's failure to clearly pledge to abandon its war .
 china aviation oil singapore says chief executive chen_jiulin , who returned to china same day company failed after losing $ 500 million in derivative trading , will return to singapore this week to help investigators . says chen , who has not been accused of any crime , returned to china to attend to his sick mother .
 william_b_rood , chicago_tribune editor and vietnam veteran who served with sen john_kerry on swift boat mission , breaks 35-year silence to support kerry 's version of events from one of their operations together and scores veterans critical of kerry . recounts mission , article in chicago tribune and on its web site . steps forward after call from kerry as swift boat veterans for truth members blanket cable television and radio talk shows to repeat claim that kerry fabricated his military accomplishments to win medals . kerry 's call to rood is part of his campaign 's first concerted push to address claims . swift boat group calls rood 's article politically motivated .
 congressional primary race pitting democrats albio sires , mayor of west_new_york , and joseph_vas , mayor of perth_amboy , heats up as candidates hurl accusations at each other . winner will replace robert_menendez , who was appointed to fill remainder of jon_s_corzine 's seat in senate . sires is also running in special election to fill menendez 's current congressional term and faces james_geron in that race .
 galileo , who discovered saturn 's rings in 1610 , did not know what he was seeing , and first circulated discovery in code to friends that saturn was star flanked by two smaller bodies . in 1659 , christian huygens suggested planet was encircled by ring . in 1675 , jean-dominique cassini discovered gaps in rings , which became known as cassini division .
 mystic aquarium and institute_for_exploration_subsidiary_mystic_entertainment_co , entering restaurant and bar business , will open first of three restaurants called the blue turtle in connecticut post mall in milford . others , which do not have aquatic theme nor target families , are scheduled to open at westchester mall in white_plains , ny , and shoppes at buckland_hills_mall in manchester , conn .
 french shareholders of european_aeronautic_defense_and_space_co , parent of airbus , confirm that they will name airbus chief executive noel_forgeard to become co-chief executive of eads in summer_of 2005 . germans put forward thomas_enders , head of military unit of eads , as his counterpart . forgeard favors scrapping dual management structure of eads , saying it is inefficient . forgeard photo .
 supreme court will hear two cases raising basic question : what does it mean for government to display copy of ten commandments . at issue are six-foot red granite monument that has sat since 1961 on grounds of texas_capitol , and framed copies of ten commandments hung five years ago on walls of two kentucky courthouses . cases reviewed .
 rent regulation , which covered 77 percent of new_york_city 's rental housing stock in early 1960 's , has been fading away at increasing pace . only 51.5 percent of stock is now regulated , with 13,024 apartments removed from rolls in 2004 , up from 8,402 in 2003 . experts are split over whether trend is good or bad for city , with some lamenting loss of affordable housing and others holding decades of regulation have distorted housing prices and discouraged construction and renovation .
 article on debate , raised by director todd_williams and producer helena_echegoyan in their new made-for-tv documentary the n word , over merits and complexities of using racial slur ` nigger ' . film traces history of slur back to 17th century and offers comments from cultural critic stanley_crouch , rapper chuck d and comics george_carlin and chris_rock on pros and cons of term .
 mikhail b khodorkovsky , russia 's richest man , is arrested on charges of fraud and tax evasion following months of investigation of his oil company , yukos . arrest heightens longstanding tensions between government of pres vladimir_v_putin and russia 's superrich oligarchs , some of whom have fled country . khodorkovsky , who grabbed cheap assets in rigged auctions after soviet_union collapsed in 1991 , has openly financed opposition parties in advance of parliamentary elections set for november . independent analysts and khodorkovsky says treatment of yukos demonstrates putin 's heavy-handed use of judicial system to punish opponents .
 advisers to former new_york_city mayor rudolph_w_giuliani say someone infiltrated giuliani camp and stole document about his presidential prospects and political liabilities . daily news was given document recently , and reports it proposes $ 100 million 2007 fundraising effort , names potential donors , and cites other issues . giuliani is expected to decide whether to run for presidency in next few months .
 developers in new jersey are putting up mixed-use projects that try to create contemporary verion of urban streetscapes , where stores , offices and housing coexist . among such projects , which allow people to live just minutes from their place of work , are liberty towers in jersey city , riverview at city place in edgewater and pier village in long_branch .
 winter rainy season in southern_california is driest in well over century , and residents fear coming season of frequent powerful fires . lack of rain has made region 's hillsides potential tinderboxes . normal fire season tends to start in late may , but many local fire departments say they will start official season at end of april .
 alana_berenson and joseph_cheetham are electrocuted by dangling power line and at least five others are injured as lightning storm sweeps through new_york region and shatters rainfall records . more than three inches of rain falls in three hours in queens , where accident occurs . other weather-related incidents around metropolitan area noted .
 european commission releases full text of its antitrust ruling against microsoft , prompting strong rebuttal from company in widely distributed internal memorandum . arguments made behind closed doors before ruling was made in march are now being vented publicly as both sides seek support before microsoft appeals to european_court_of_justice , probably in late may or june . mario_monti , european_union 's competition commissioner , says he thinks microsoft ruling can withstand an appeal .
 three organ recipients in southern_new_england die in month 's time of virus spread by rodents , and officials say that three transplant patients in wisconsin died under similar circumstances in 2003 . organs in new_england were taken from unidentified resident of rhode_island who died of stroke in mid-april . rhode island health officials say hamster owned by donor , bought at petsmart store in warwick , ri , tested positive for rodent disease , lymphocytic chorlomeningitis virus , or lcmv .
 sen john_kerry wins victories in 9 of 10 primaries from new_york to california , effectively capturing democratic presidential nomination and prompting his main rival , sen john_edwards , to move to end his campaign . defeats edwards in almost every state , including ohio and georgia , where edwards had been looking for victory to keep candidacy alive . howard_dean , who withdrew from race , wins in vermont , his home state . pres bush calls kerry to congratulate him . kerry and edwards laud each other , speeches . kerry attacks bush , scoring his proposal for constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriages as effort to divide nation . vote tallies .
 profile of norman_adami , new chief executive of miller_brewing , says he faces formidable challenge at company whose brands , notably miller_lite , have lost ground in recent years , mainly to anheuser-busch ` s budweiser and bud lite and flood of imports . he is new to north american market , having been chairman and managing director of south_african_breweries , whose parent , sab_miller , acquired miller in may 2002 .
 jane e brody personal health column discusses type 2 diabetes , which effects more than 16 million americans . describes how body produces insulin and what breaks down in process and causes type 2 diabetes . discusses centers for disease control and prevention analysis , published in journal of the american medical assn and predicting that of those individuals born in 2000 , one in three whites , two in five blacks and one in two hispanics are destined to develop diabetes if current trend continues . experts agree that obesity is primary cause of disease . symptoms of type 2 diabetes outlined .
 analysis of acquittal of tyco_international 's former general counsel mark a belnick on larceny charges . says decision may also be victory for former tyco executives l dennis_kozlowski and mark h swartz . says main charges against belnick are similar to some of those against kozlowski and swartz , whose trial ended in mistrial in april .
 national institutes of health , acting on mandate from congress , plans to spend $ 24 million to help build and operate chimpanzee sanctuary , in essence , taxpayer-supported retirement home for research chimps . of the 1,600 laboratory chimps in united_states , nih officials estimate that more than 400 are not involved in experiments . chimp haven , which officials hope to open in 2004 , will be on 200 acres of donated land near shreveport , la .
 bush administration announces that it will ask congress for $ 4.2 billion more to compensate louisiana residents whose homes were severely damaged by hurricanes katrina and rita . louisiana politicians , who have accused white_house of of not requesting sufficient reconstruction resources , applaud decision . request is part of $ 18 billion in hurricane relief that white_house will request from congress this year .
 richard_n_perle , chairman of influential_defense_policy_board , has been retained by global crossing to help overcome defense_department and fbi resistance to its proposed sale to joint venture of hutchison_whampoa , controlled by hong_kong billionaire li_kashing and singapore_technologies_telemedia , phone company controlled by government of singapore . perle and his lawyer says his involvement with global crossing does not violate ethics rules . perle is to be paid $ 725,000 by company , including $ 600,000 if government approves sale to hutchison_whampoa joint venture .
 saudi arabia takes on aggressive new role in middle_east 's conflicts as counteroffensive to iran 's efforts to become regional superpower . saudi arabia will meet with hamas and fatah , two feuding palestinian factions . senior saudi officials met secretly with israeli leaders about how to establish palestinian state last fall . has also increased its public involvement in iraq and its support of sunni-led government in lebanon . officials say saudi_arabia is concerned that its role in region is being undermined by iran and could threaten its power and security . bush administration encourages saudi_arabia 's effort , yet some of their goals may not be in alignment . they do agree that one important way to block iran and calm region is to resolve israeli-palestinian conflict . analysts say that saudi_arabia fears us troop withdrawal in iraq would leave country open to iran .
 light rail system that will connect new_york_city to kennedy_international_airport may spark revival of jamaica , queens , where connection hub will be located . graceful mezzanine bridge designed by robert_i_davidson is rising over main thoroughfare and will lead to airtrain terminal where passengers will be able to continue to city or long_island . carlisle_towery , greater_jamaica_development_corp , says objective is to style jamaica as ` airport village , ' complete with commercial expansion . terminal has been designed to accept additional 10 stories . area development described .
 exxon mobil reaches agreement with indonesia 's state-owned oil company pertamina to develop oil deposits . two companies will begin drilling for oil near town of cepu in eastern_java . exxon executives will be in charge of day-to-day operations with pertamina_heading_joint_oversight_committee . agreement comes after five years of battling for control of project . output is expected to be 180,000 barrels daily .
 kmart completes its reorganization fifteen months after filing for bankruptcy protection and will become publicly traded company once again . company is renamed kmart_holding_corp . edward s lampert , hedge fund manager who bought kmart debt and accelerated timetable for its exit from bankruptcy , says kmart can will will perform better . lampert 's esl investments put additional $ 140 million into kmart to win control of it along with martin j whitman of third avenue partners -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 peter_mangone , 63 , recalls day in 1955 when he was 14 years old and was invited by marilyn_monroe , then 29 and at transitional period of her career , to film her on shopping spree in new_york_city . film was found last year among his father 's possessions and returned to him .
 denny 's , nation 's largest family dining chain , mounts ad campaign to address perception that service and cleaniness are not what they ought to be . guest counts fell 6.4 percent in eight weeks ended nov 20 . ad agency is publicis in mid_america . ihop_corp , a rival , also has new campaign from los_angeles office of mccann-erickson worldwide advertising .
 wesley_murphy , 16 , is charged with aggravated assault and faces possible other charges , including murder , in death of his cousin , faheem_williams , 7 , whose body was found locked in basement of newark , nj , home murphy shared with his mother , sherry_l_murphy , and extended family . state seeks to terminate parental rights of ms_murphy , who has five children and has been charged with child endangerment in abuse of faheem 's brothers , raheem , 7 , and tyrone_hill , 4 .
 news that aleve , one of bayer 's over-the-counter painkillers may increase risk of heart attacks and strokes , barely fazes shareholders in germany . bayer 's shares rise slightly in germany day after food and drug administration issued warning about risks of naproxen , generic drug marketed by bayer under brand name aleve . analysts say aleve is only small part of bayer 's drug portfolio , generating annual sales of barely $ 100 million in company with total health care revenues of nearly $ 12 billion .
 red lake band of chippewa_indians in minnesota buries three victims of 16-year-old jeff_weise 's march 21 shooting spree in red lake , minn , but seven more funerals lie ahead , including one for gunman . weise shot his grandfather , police sergeant ` dash ' lussier , and companion , michelle_sigana , took grandfather 's weapons to red lake high school and killed security guard , teacher and five students before killing himself . lussier , sigana and chase_lussier were buried after services mixing christian tra ditions and indian drums .
 south_carolina voters brace for what may be most contested , and potentially influential , democrocratic presidential primary state has seen in years . south_carolina is lone state that every major democratic contender is planning to play to win . south_carolina has jumped to front of line for state primaries , setting its democratic primary for feb 3 , week after new_hampshire .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry plan barrage of visits and television advertisements in 11 states they both see as final battleground between now and election day . both sides have reassigned staff out of states once considered competitive and scattered them across 11 key states , which are fla , pa , ohio , mich , minn , wis , colo , iowa , nev , nm and nh . at least 7 of 11 states are considered tied . 11 states represent 135 of 538 electoral votes . bush and kerry have sharpened their differences as race comes to close , staking out vastly different positions on wide variety of issues . bush aides say his central focus over final 10 days will be what they see as his strongest suit : fight against terrorism .
 glendale , calif , police say juan_m_alvarez , who parked his truck on railroad tracks on jan 26 , intended to cause deadly train wreck that resulted and was not suicidal as they had initally surmised . 11 people died and 180 were injured after alvarez abandoned his truck on tracks during morning rush hour .
 democratic assemblyman david_r_koon has been trying to persuade new_york state governor george_e_pataki to allocate money for technology needed to trace wireless calls to 911 since 1996 after his daughter was killed minutes after calling 911 from cell phone . disappearance of four teenagers in boating accident makes his case more pressing .
 iran rejects european calls to halt renewed nuclear activities but indicates willingness to continue negotiations . international atomic_energy_agency_holds_emergency_board meeting in vienna . consensus on resolution is likely to be thwarted by developing nations . new pres mahmoud ahmadinejad calls uranium processing ` our right , ' but tells sec gen kofi_annan he will continue talks although iran rejects europe 's current offer . russia demands iran halt uranium work , while france and germany see more negotiations .
 retired new_york_city police lieutenant , john_t_maguire , is sentenced to 14 months by judge_carol_b_amon_of_federal_district_court in brooklyn . admits stealing $ 110,000 in narcotics money while supervising detectives in upper manhattan , including convicted detectives thomas_rachko and julio c vasquez . will forfeit $ 110,000 as part of plea .
 golf notebook discusses phil_mickelson , who is tied for fifth after three round at masters tournament . ernie_els will start final round six strokes off lead . former masters winners tiger_woods , jose_maria_olazabal and vijay_singh are all in contention to win this year . cbs announcers did not discuss protests over augusta_national_golf_club 's all-male membership during television coverage .
 nato allies seek to shore up struggling peacekeeping operation in kosovo as united_nations officials assess damage left by three days of ethnic violence . officials say unrest was ignited by drowning of three ethnic albanian boys by local serbs . france and germany will send 400 to 600 more troops to join contingents already based in un-governed province .
 bush administration denies entry to all 61 cuban scholars scheduled to participate in latin american studies assn 's international congress in las_vegas , deeming them ` detrimental ' to united_states interests . last-minute move comes on heels of new restrictions on travel by americans to cuba . it is provoking anger and dismay among leading american academics . critics say tough measures are meant to strengthen pres bush 's backing among cuban-americans in florida , a swing state .
 bush administration faces significant opposition in congress to its nuclear deal with india and tough questions from its allies on whether arrangement could set precedent encouraging spread of nuclear weapons to iran and other potential foes of united_states . administration officials express confidence that they can overcome skepticism of critics , in part because support is nearly universal in west and among republicans and democrats in washington for building india 's strength as bastion of democracy ad counterweight to china in asia .
 arts briefing column : wellesley_college president diana_chapman_walsh , responding by letter to criticism and comments from concerned alumnae about way college is portrayed in mike_newell 's film mona_lisa_smile , expresses confidence ` that movie is unlikely to do us any lasting damage . ` ford 's theater in washington names paul_tetreault to succeed late frankie_hewitt as producing director . more than 1,000 mourners reportedly attend funeral of chinese pop diva and actress anita mui in hong_kong .
 fear of disruption in oil supplies and stricter environmental regulations are expected to push retail gasoline prices at gas pump even higher than at present this spring and summer . energy information administration says that gasoline supplies declined by 800,000 barrels last_month , to 5 percent below five-year running average . that lifts price of next month 's gasoline futures contract on new_york_mercantile_exchange nearly 3 percent . crude oil increases nearly 2 percent , to a 13-year high .
 families of seven sept 11 victims who worked for cantor_fitzgerald file suit accusing compensation fund administrator kenneth_r_feinberg of acting illegally and unfairly . also say fund violates new_york law by calculating awards based on after-tax projections of lost income , discriminates against unmarried victims and imposes illegal cap on awards . if successful , suit could call for payouts well in excess of $ 4 billion to $ 5 billion originally anticipated . failure of suit could work against feinberg as well , as some families may decide awards are too low and decide to sue airlines , airport-security companies and others cited as having responsibility for sept 11 attacks .
 few people in pres bush 's entourage seemed happier to get home from europe than bush_himself , who spent his week in meetings with three of prickliest characters in current us foreign relations -- german chancellor gerhard_schroder , french pres jacques chirac and russian pres vladimir v putin . respite came in slovakia , where crowds cheered bush 's talk of freedom and prime min mikulas_dzurinda raved about his meeting with american president .
 state sec colin l powell calls for expanded nato and un roles in iraq , nato ministers meeting , brussels . speech , bush administration 's most pointed appeal for international help since iraq invasion , stops short of making any specific requests . presses ministers to prepare for decision by june , when nato heads of state are set to meet . ministers react coolly . sen joseph_r_biden jr , in brussels , says larger role for nato in iraq is all but inevitable .
 joyce_purnick metro matters column discusses public school 164 , brooklyn , program to help young students who fall behind in first , second and third grade . contends that new_york_city 's plan to hold back third graders who fail standardized tests will only work if right actions are taken to improve students ' abilities .
 investigators in nairobi find evidence suggesting that some of same operatives of al qaeda involved in american_embassy bombings in kenya and tanzania in 1998 may have helped carry out nov 18 attack on paradise hotel in mombasa , kenya , which killed 11 kenyans , 3 israelis and at least 2 suicide bombers . four qaeda members were convicted in 2001 for embassy attacks , but american officials acknowledge that they never completely cracked qaeda cell that carried them out .
 article on woman , thou art loosed , movie produced by reuben_cannon and starring bishop t d jakes , preacher and author of inspirational book by same name . independent feature , made for less than $ 2 million and shown so far in only 408 theaters , has taken in more than $ 5 million since opening two_weeks_ago .
 sotheby 's in new_york auctions off kennedy family items from various kennedy family homes in hyannis_port and martha 's vineyard , mass , as well as new jersey , new_york and virginia . it is caroline_kennedy 's version of a garage sale . italian ship owner lucio_zagari spends $ 96,000 for 20th-century rocking chair once used by pres john f kennedy .
 robin_cook and clare_short , two members of prime min tony_blair 's cabinet who resigned over iraq war , tell_house_of_commons_committee that britain made selective use of intelligence to make case that iraq had weapons of mass destruction . say they were told by security officials before war that iraqi weapons did not pose immediate threat . cook says he does not question blair 's good faith , but short accuses blair of misleading public . both question ` thin ' dossier blair cited .
 european environment agency reports 10 of 15 european_union_nations lag in efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions and meet tagets set by kyoto protocol , international accord to combat global warming . says gas emissions have risen for second_year running , with ireland , spain and portugal worst offenders . germany and britain have cut emissions by more than agreed amount , while france has just reached its goal .
 article on thriving horror movie genre , which is being noticed on hollywood 's stylish inner track and attracting oscar-level casts . latest effort by director robert_zemeckis and producer joel_silver 's dark castle label , house of wax , stars elisha_cuthbert and paris_hilton and is being showcased at tribeca film festival . next dark castle film , the reaping , will star hilary_swank and earlier film in series , gothika , featured halle_berry year after she won 2002 oscar . silver comments on strong feminine presence in dark castle films .
 ncaa_selection_committee_names_kentucky_university as number one seed in ncaa men 's basketball tournament , topping st louis regional . duke university is ranked number two and tops atlanta regional . stanford_university is ranked number 3 and tops phoenix regional . st joseph 's university is number 4 and tops east rutherford regional . regionals this year were renamed from east , west , south and midwest to host city names .
 new jersey gov james_mcgreevey delivers prepared remarks at bill-signing with only glancing reference to his impending resignation in gay sex scandal . photo . republicans press campaign to hasten departure . quinnipiac_university_poll_of_new_jersey_voters finds 46 percent believe mcgreevey should leave immediately and 48 percent say he should wait until nov 15 .
 parents and teachers_express shock at announcement that almost quarter of faculty at private ross_school in east_hampton will not be rehired for next school year . ken_jackson , head of upper_school , denies reports that courtney_ross_holst , widow of founder steve_ross , plans to withdraw support now that her daughter , nicole , has graduated .
 gunmen wearing iraqi police uniforms abduct five british civilians in one of most brazen , coordinated assaults to occur in government building since war started . ease of attack amplifies concerns that some in iraq 's government may be playing active role in attacking westerners , or at least allowing attacks to occur . us military reports that 10 us soldiers die in separate attacks , making may deadliest month for american troops since november 2004 .
 taco bell_traces_growing_e_coli outbreak to green onions and government investigators search for source of contamination as total number of cases rises to 99 . new cases are reported in new_york , new jersey and pennsylvania . federal and state officials investigate two new jersey suppliers to taco bell , mclane_foodservice and ready pac produce , who say onions come from california farm . spreading crisis at taco_bell is at least third episode of illness linked to produce in last three months . fda regulates produce industry but its guidelines for safe farming practices are voluntary .
 blackstone group , private equity firm in new_york that recently sold its interests in four luxury hotels in london , agrees to pay $ 3.1 billion for extended stay america , largest us chain offering no-frills , low-priced rooms with kitchens to people who are away from home for weeks or even months at a time .
 weary sailors aboard uss abraham_lincoln , one of nation 's premier aircraft carriers at sea longer than any carrier since persian_gulf war , struggle to maintain morale . carrier left home port of everett , wash , in july 2002 for six-month deployment to patrol no-flight zone over iraq . officers worry about stamina of more than 5,200 sailors and aviators aboard .
 panel of independent journalists retained by usa today concludes that shoddy editing standards , fissures in newsroom communication and atmosphere of fear allowed jack_kelley to fabricate and plagiarize articles for more than 10 years . managing editor hal_ritter announces resignation just two days after top editor karen_jurgensen stepped down and executive editor brian_gallagher announced his role will change . at least 10 other newspapers have confirmed instances of plagiarism or fabrication in last year . publisher craig_moon says more money will be spent on newspaper 's foreign coverage .
 indian outsourcing company infosys reports annual results and outlook for current year . plans to hire 25,000 employees over next year and increase payroll 22 percent to 30 percent . profit is expected to rise 26 percent to 28 percent . company does not anticipate lower profit margins this year . industry analysts expect infosys and other technology services companies overseas to begin to see decline in near future . chief executive nandan_m_nilekani comments .
 argentina threatens to default on $ 3.1 billion payment to international monetary fund due march 9 unless it gets assurances of continuing imf support for rolling over debt . funds says argentina should be doing more to pay back private investors left holding virtually worthless bonds after country defaulted on $ 88 billion of foreign debt in january 2002 . group of 7 seems increasingly impatient to see some progress in argentina 's negotiations to settle with private investors .
 us still regards latin_america as its backyard , but its dominance is no longer unquestioned . presence of china can be felt everywhere . china , driven by one of most sustained economic expansions and facing shortages in asia , is increasingly turning to latin_america as supplier . pres hu_jintao has announced over $ 30 billion in new investments in region and signed long-term contracts that will guarantee china supplies of vital materials it needs for its factories . us seems to have attached little importance on china 's rising profile in region . has welcomed increased trade between latin_america and china as means to reduce pressure on it to underwrite economic reforms .
 thomas_atkinson is charged with 1976 murder of joyce_paneck-saglimbene in englewood , nj . atkinson was 13 years old at time of fatal stabbing . served 20 years in prison for other crimes and was free for four years and living in new_york_city at time of arrest . question arises over whether atkinson can be tried as adult or minor .
 article on soaring home prices in westchester_county , ny , where single-family houses priced at $ 1 million or more are becoming commonplace . 76 percent of single-family homes sold so far this year in bronxville , for example , reportedly have been for more than $ 1 million , compared with 38 percent in rye_city and 64 percent in greenwich , conn .
 article on wide variety of approaches to traffic control and traffic accident study and prevention around westchester_county . there is loose conglomeration of at least 46 separate state , county and municipal entities responsible for 4,868 miles of roadways . traffic remediation efforts are non-existent or spotty in some places , like mount_vernon , which does not keep track of automobile accidents , and active and efficient in others , like white_plains . scene at new_hudson_valley_transportation_management_center in hawthorne described .
 grey global group is taking first step toward possible sale , and interpublic_group_of_companies , another owner of ad agencies , announces management shake-up . grey hires goldman_sachs and j p morgan chase to explore possible sale of business . chris_couglin , no . 2 executive at interpublic and crucial player in its unfinished turnaround effort , resigns after one year .
 childhood home of legendary guitarist jimi_hendrix is moved from seattle to renton , wash , after four-year struggle involving protracted court battles with city of seattle , foundation started by hendrix 's brother leon_hendrix and hendrix 's fans . new sight for tiny two-bedroom house is in rundown three-acre mobile home park , across street from cemetery where hendrix is buried . he died at age of 27 in 1970l .
 hurricane isabel 's furious winds blow and and its heavy rain pounds empty sidewalks of washington , dc , downing trees and power lines . more than third of electric customers in washington and its suburbs in maryland and virginia lose power . nation 's capital had all but shut down day before , and mayor anthony_williams had declared state of emergency full day before storm 's arrival .
 two-day conference at central_intelligence_agency focuses on ways to reinvigorate america 's atomic espionage efforts through variety of methods . increased threat of nuclear weapons as result of pakistani nuclear engineer dr abdul_qadeer_khan 's selling of nuclear information to iran , libya , and north_korea and other possible sources represents just one reason intelligence will likely be increased and made more technologically advanced . various ideas for plutonium and uranium detection discussed . research may eventually help international_atomic_energy_agency form truer picture of atomic weapons production .
 intel_corp reports profits rose about 25 percent in first_quarter on high demand for chips for notebook computers and mobile devices . strong showing beats wall street 's forecasts . reports net income of $ 2.15 billion compared with $ 1.73 billion year earlier . revenue rose 17 percent over last year , to $ 9.4 billion , from $ 8.1 billion . chief financial officer andy_bryant says worldwide demand for computer chips seems pretty solid .
 success of noel_labat_comess 's tom cat bakery in long_island_city , which bakes artisinal breads and rolls for sale to restaurants , corporate dining rooms and hotels , helps illustrate why manufacturing of specialty and ethnic foods in growing in new_york_city in midst of recession , at time when other manufacturing industries are fading fast . between may 2002 and may 2003 , number of people working in food-related manufacturing in city jumped by 1,100 , or 7.7 percent .
 public theater , kicking off its 50th anniversary celebration , is about to open revival of 1971 musical version of shakespeare 's two gentlemen of verona , adapted by john_guare and mel_shapiro with lyrics by guare and music by galt_macdermot , at delacorte theater in central_park . guare comments on productions then and now .
 nicholas_kristof op-ed column from pyongyang reports that while pres bush and his top officials pretend not to notice , north_korea 's bizarre leader kim_jong_il is throwing down nuclear gauntlet , resuming work on two major reactors . reports on trip with times publisher arthur_sulzberger jr . warns that resumption of six-party talks must not distract from reality that bush 's refusal to engage north_korea directly is making peninsula steadily more dangerous .
 article on us_coast_guard auxiliary stewart_sutherland , 61 , technician and part-time computer database manager at columbia_university 's lamont-doherty earth observatory who lives aboard lady b , former coast_guard patrol boat docked at tottenville , staten_island . coast guard , along with reservists and auxiliaries , are to be transferred from department_of_transportation to homeland security on march 1 . sutherland and other auxiliaries , who perform wide range of tasks and work without pay , routinely patrol new_york harbor .
 sir evelyn_de_rothschild , who runs london house known as n m rothschild , is handing control of family 's banking business to cousin baron_david_de_rothschild , who runs french_house_rothschild_&_compagnie_banque . move has been expected for years , though official change of control may not happen for another six months to year , as family members negotiate structure that would allow for transfer of assets among holding companies .
 schering-plough corp reports that profits for second_quarter amounted to just 12 cents per share -- down 72 percent from year ago and less than analysts were expecting . profits in first_quarter were down 71 percent . company says earnings for rest of year will probably be even lower , in part because of growing competition for allergy drug claritin .
 thousands of home health care aides in new_york_city begin three-day strike to press for $ 3-an-hour raise , which would take wage to $ 10 an hour . strike leaves homebound sick and elderly people without care for at least part of day . agencies say more than half the workers crossed picket line to tend for patients . dennis_rivera , president of 1199/seiu , says one agency , partners in care , has agreed to pay its 4,000 aides $ 10 an hour . asks workers to call off remainder of strike , but strikers refuse .
 business is booming at suburban-style stores in atlantic terminal mall in brooklyn . target manager says brooklyn_terminal_location has led chain 's 1,272 stores in domestics , electronics and clothing sales every week since it opened in july . chuck e cheese 's manager says store has been packed all day , every day since opening . mall was built by bruce_ratner of forest_city_ratner . he also built atlantic_center mall next door , which is not doing as well . atlantic center has large discount stores but forbidding corridors and few restaurants .
 marshall s cogan , prominent new_york art collector , restaurateur and magazine publisher , is also subject of stinging ruling by federal judge_robert_sweet , who found that cogan drained personal holding company , trace_international_holdings , of tens of millions of dollars while officers and directors did nothing . ruling involving now-bankrupt company could cost cogan and five associates total of $ 44 million .
 russian pres vladimir_putin , at news conference from camp_david where he is meeting with pres bush , says he will ask iran to comply with international inspections of suspected weapons program , but that russia will go forward with plans to help iran build nuclear reactor . leaders are eager to be seen as partners in fight against terrorism and say they had detailed discussions on other topics , but iran 's nuclear program continues to be source of tension , even though russia has joined in setting oct 31 deadline for iran to open completely to inspectors .
 article on teenage volunteer emergency workers in new_york metropolitan area . vast majority of teens have received certification in one of first two levels of emergency service training . training at summer session at emergency_medical_services_institute_at_stamford_hospital in connecticut and scene at darien_emergency_services_post 53 volunteer_ambulance_corps , which has 58 members ranging from 14-year-old candidates to 17 - and 18-year-old crew chiefs , described .
 american airlines and airbus go public with their dispute over crash of flight 587 in queens in nov 2001 . american says that design of control system was at fault and that airbus suppressed information about earlier control problems involving model a-300 . airbus says that american improperly trained its pilots in use of rudder and had been warned of incorrect training before crash . says no adverse comments were received from operators of plane after more than 16 million flight hours .
 dreamworks_skg calls off talks to be acquired by nbc_universal_when_universal executives seek to reduce price they would pay , citing disappointing performance of some dreamworks movies . several people involved in talks say that nbc_universal wanted to lower price to $ 1.4 billion from $ 1.5 billion for live-action business of dreamworks , which includes 60-movie library . partners and investors of dreamworks would have received about $ 900 million of that amount . steven_spielberg , who helped found dreamworks , reportedly also balked at idea that universal wanted to be able to approve spending more than $ 100 million on a movie .
 forest service employees for environmental ethics says forest service wastes money , damages environment and endangers lives by ignoring recent research on beneficial role of fire . group filed suit in aug 2003 to force forest service to review firefighting strategy . forest service fought fires on 1.4 million acres last_year , but allowed 300,000 more acres to burn and set prescribed fires on 1.2 million acres . spent $ 1.4 billion to fight fires on 7 million acres in 2002 , up from $ 522 million to fight fires on 6 million acres in 1996 .
 faculty panel at columbia_university will investigate jewish students ' complaints of intimidation by pro-palestinian professors in middle_east and asian languages and cultures department . issue flared into international news in oct 2004 , when news media was shown film ` columbia_unbecoming , ' which had been made by pro-israel group called david_project . profs hamid_dabashi , joseph_massad and george_saliba are at center of dispute . columbia pres lee c bollinger has been criticized for failing to contain controversy .
 francis_levine , teacher at public school 190 in brooklyn , and acquaintance robert_somerville are charged with attempted murder of principal wanda_rivera-switalski on sept 15 , 2004 . rivera-switalski was slashed with box cutter outside her south ozone park , queens , home and needed over 100 stitches on her face . she has not returned to work .
 jon_s_corzine , liberal democrat who parlayed wall street wealth and experience into us senate seat , is elected governor of new jersey , defeating fellow multimillionaire_douglas r forrester in nasty campaign that was costliest in state history . corzine wins 53 percent , forrester 44 percent . democrat timothy_m_kaine wins governorship in virginia , sending powerful message that pres bush 's standing has fallen in reliably republican state . kaine wins 51 percent to 46 percent for republican jerry w kilgore . corzine , flanked by his three children , talks to cheering supporters in east_brunswick after forrester concedes . photos . noxious campaign that disgusted voters reviewed .
 d dominick_lombardi reviews works by igor_galvez and julio_valdez at henaine miranda contemporary art projects in port_chester , ny , computer-generated images by grace_knowlton , germaine_keller , simon_draper and alex_uribe at gallery at highland studio in beacon and drawings by 54 artists at arts exchange in white_plains .
 israeli defense min shaul_mofaz says army may reoccupy gaza_strip after soldiers kill 12 palestinians , most of them gunmen , in deepest raid into densely populated gaza_city in more than two years of conflict . israeli army imposes ` total closure ' on west_bank and gaza , which it says would last through israeli elections in two days . describes closing as effort to prevent terrorist attacks while israelis go to polls . says gaza raid was in response to palestinian rocket attacks .
 eight pakistani soldiers who were taken hostage by militants in pakistan 's tribal areas have been executed in latest sign that effort by government to flush foreign militants from region has gone awry . thousands of people have fled their homes in tribal areas , and resentment against army is prompting fears that violence could spread beyond south_waziristan . pres pervez_musharraf is under increasing pressure to resolve standoff . pakistani officials confirm that voice on recent broadcast tape is that of ayman_al-zawahiri , al_qaeda 's second in command .
 hugo lindgren article bemoans how scandals in world of professional and college sports increases appeal . cites enormous amount of news coverage given to murder of baylor_university basketball player patrick_dennehy and speculates about how publicity may impact coming season . also notes dallas mavericks owner mark_cuban 's comment that kobe_bryant sexual assault trial would be ` great for the nba ' . says as real world of professional athletes is more exposed , they seem more freakish and compelling .
 palestinian prime min mahmoud_abbas , with three days left to form new government , remains locked in bitter struggle with yasir_arafat over list of proposed ministers . with peace plan on hold , israel continues to press military offensives in gaza and west_bank , killing six palestinians . forces in gaza find and destroy two tunnels they say were used to smuggle weapons from egypt .
 ford_foundation is undertaking $ 50 million , five-year initiative to support public radio and television broadcasting and other media organizations in effort to spur creation and distribution of public affairs programming , particularly programs dealing with international affairs . public broadcasting service and national_public_radio will receive $ 10 million and $ 7 million each , respectively . some other recipients noted .
 profile of charles_kushner , new jersey developer and contributor to democratic political campaigns , who has been charged with hiring prostitutes to compromise two potential witnesses in federal investigation of his business and political activities . says he is successful and generous , but has sharp temper and tough business manner . prostitute succeeded in seducing one man , william_shulder , and kushner had videotape of episode sent to his shulder 's wife , kushner 's sister . gov james_e_mcgreevey , whose campaigns received $ 1.5 million in donations from kushner , pushed agressively but unsuccessfuly to have kushner named chairman of port_authority_of_new_york and new jersey .
 utstarcom , as part of $ 165 million deal to buy audiovox_communications_corp 's cellphone subsidiary , agrees to hire all 269 audiovox employees for their same jobs at office in hauppauge , ny . audiovox president philip_christopher , who reportedly will be paid $ 16 million for his ` personally held intangibles , ' says staff will be working with same products and pursuing new ventures .
 ford motor coannounces that average fuel economy for its 2003 model sport utility vehicles will be lower than those of 2002 . attributes decline to lower fuel economy in its land rover division and decreasing sales of smaller suv 's . announces that it will not meet pledge to improve suv fuel efficiency by 25 percent between 2000 and 2005 . fuel efficiency for all american vehicles sold in 2002 hit 22-year low . ford opens labor talks with united_automobile_workers_union . vice president dennis j cirbes comments .
 text messaging by cellphones has caught on quickly in two years since short message service allowed messaging between customers of different cellular carriers in us . number of messages has tripled since 2002 to 2.5 billion per month in mid-2004 . users , especially young people , often exceed number of messages allowed and must pay 10 cents to send and from 2 cents to 10 cents to receive messages . resulting charges can cause family fights . carriers sometimes fail to draw customers ' attention to cost-saving deals .
 michael_brand , director of virginia museum of fine arts in richmond since fall_of 2000 , discusses plans for lifting museum from ranks of top regional museums and putting it among the big ones with national profile . has just announced plans for $ 100 million expansion designed by rick_mather . brand and mather agree that museum 's architecture will not eclipse its art .
 new york city fire department says number of firefighters being treated for alcohol and drug abuse this year is more than fifty percent higher than in 2003 . department handled 102 such cases from jan 1 to march 12 , in addition to 31 cases of post-traumatic stress disorder . still other firefighters are believed to seek outside treatment .
 apartment building at 45 wall street -lrb- nyc -rrb- reopens after city spent months and about $ 6 million moving tenants out in preparation to demolish building and erect new trading complex for new_york_stock_exchange . proposed $ 1.4 billion project was scrapped in light of city 's looming fiscal problems , but will still cost taxpayers about $ 109 million .
 wall street 's earnings growth , fueled by two years of robust trading gains , is showing signs that it may taper off in coming quarters as sluggish stock market and less-favorable trading environment take toll on profits . earnings of goldman_sachs and lehman_brothers are impressive , but mask continuing slump in their investment banking and equities capital markets business that is likely to show up in results of morgan_stanley , bear , stearns and merrill_lynch .
 prime min ariel_sharon is struggling to advance his plan to evacuate some israeli settlements without peace agreement with palestinians . proposes that cabinet vote on emptying just three settlements in gaza_strip rather than all 21 of them and four isolated ones in west_bank , as originally proposed . he has been trimming his plan in hopes of avoiding second defeat , this time in cabinet vote called for may 30 . many right-wing ministers in his cabinet object to withdrawal plan because it seems a reward for terrorism .
 pressures of $ 5 billion budget_gap_force_new_jersey to shut down program that lured manhattan companies to new jersey in return for millions of dollars in tax breaks and grants under business employment incentive program . new_york officials , faced with prospect of losing more businesses or coming up with money to compete with new jersey 's inducements , breathe sigh of relief .
 valerie_wilson , known to country by her maiden name valerie_plame , returns to cia in new job after being identified as covert officer . startled neighbors say they thought of her as ` working soccer mom ' before her true job was revealed by syndicated columnist robert_novak in 2003 . her husband joseph_c_wilson iv interprets leak of his wife 's cia connection as act of vengeance from white_house officials for his public accusations of bush administration deceit in building case for iraq war . former cia officers differ on impact of novak 's identification of valerie_wilson , who had been working against weapons proliferation in europe posing as analyst for shell company set up by agency .
 special commission charges that new_york_city education dept wastes $ 8 million to $ 10 million of its approximately $ 100 million annual food budget because of flawed bidding procedures , employee misconduct and lack of proper oversight . finds that at least two educaton officials accepted gifts from vendors and that vendor schrier_&_co took advantage of lowball bidding by $ 8 million over two years .
 author steven_hill op-ed column contends that gov arnold_schwarzenegger 's proposal to change way california draws its legislative districts is commendable , but unlikely to achieve his goals because it does not account for realities of state 's demographic landscape . says california should use system like that in peoria , ill , for municipal elections . holds that instead of electing 40 state senators from 40 districts , voters in 10 districts could elect four senators each . says these districts would be far more likely to be bipartisan .
 new jersey_devils_defeat_anaheim_mighty_ducks , 3-0 , to win third stanley cup since 1995 . win stanley cup final series , 4-3 , and get record 12th win in one year 's playoffs at home in continental_arena . devils goalie martin_brodeur makes 24 saves . mighty ducks goalie jean-sebastien giguere becomes fifth player on losing team to win conn smythe trophy for most valuable player in playoffs .
 $ 17.8 billion , three-way deal that london-based financier lakshmi n mattal announced this week would put him at head of largest , most geographically diverse steel company in world . new mittal_steel would be made up of lnm_holdings and ispat_international , two mittal family companies that would be merged and then would buy international steel group of $ 4.5 billion . mittal family would end up with 88 percent of new company . mittal steel would ship 57 million tons of steel each year from plants in 14 countries , and generate annual operating income of about $ 7 billion .
 being french-american in maine used to carry stigma , but language and culture are now making comeback . people of french descent poured into maine and other new_england states from canada in 1870 's and became backbone of textile mills and shoe factories , but maine passed law in 1919 requiring schools to teach in english . maine elected its first openly french-american congressman michael_h_michaud in 2002 , and gov john_e_baldacci has increased commerce with french-speaking countries . french immersion and language reacquisition programs have sprung up .
 article on steady stream of au pairs arriving in new_york metropolitan area from around world despite war in iraq , economic woes and fear of sars . while full-time nanny can cost up to $ 500 a week , host family pays au pair $ 140 a week , amount set by state_department , and onetime fee of about $ 5,000 to cover transporation from home country , health insurance and orientation .
 baseball mixes with politics in nation 's capital when george_soros , who spent millions of dollars trying to defeat pres bush last year , competes for ownership of washington nationals against former secretary of state colin l powell and former republican sen peter_fitzgerald , among others . many republicans voice outrage at soros 's inclusion in one group bidding for team , even though group of bidders that includes powell is led by major republican donor fred_malek . because it is washington , every aspect has political caste , from insignia on team 's caps to its color .
 homeland security department 's effort to create tamperproof transportation worker identification credential is nearly two years past deadline to begin production , but along way has benefited kentucky rep harold_rogers by creating jobs in his home district around corbin and profits for companies that are donors to his political causes . rogers has taken 11 trips paid for by american_assn_of_airport executives , which until this week was to profit from no-bid contract rogers helped arrange .
 hewlett-packard co reports fiscal 2003 first_quarter results ended jan 31 that suggest company 's merger with compaq_computer last year is producing cost savings promised by management . reports earnings of $ 877 million on pro forma basis . personal computer business earned operating profit of $ 33 million compared with loss of $ 68 million in three_months_ended_oct 2002 . revenue was $ 17.88 billion . chief executive carleton_s_fiorina comments .
 two american astronomers , john c mather of goddard_space_flight_center and george_f_smoot_of_lawrence_berkeley_national_laboratory_at_university_of_california , berkeley , are awarded nobel prize in physics for their work uncovering evidence on origin of universe , and how it grew into galaxies . will split prize of 10 million swedish kroner , about $ 1.37 million . led team of more than 1,000 scientists , engineers and technicians behind cosmic background explorer satellite launched in 1989 . its mission was to study haze of microwave radiation thought to be remnant of big bang .
 foreign direct investment , once object of scorn , fear and recrimination in united_states , is increasing seen as source of new jobs , production and exports . foreign companies are spending billions of dollars to build or expand operations throughout united_states , lifting local economies and offsetting some of jobs being sent offshore by american companies . free trade proponents note number of new workers employed by foreign companies , 6.4 million in 2001 , more than doubled in 15 years . number of jobs that moved offshore , roughly 10 million , grew by only 56 percent in period .
 critics say sprint_corp 's financial performance in recent years provides justification for board 's decision to force ouster of chief executive william_t_esrey and president ronald_lemay , even if their tax shelters had not become targets of internal revenue service inquiry . sprint spokesman bill_white says esrey will continue in his position until company succeeds in hiring gary_forsee , vice chairman of bellsouth and chairman of its cingular_wireless joint venture with sbc_communications . esrey 's career at sprint discussed .
 almost no one in united_states remembers war that americans fought against mexico more than 150 years ago . in mexico , almost no one has forgotten . war cut mexico in two and , according to mexico city historian miguel_soto , inflicted wound that never really healed . as pres bush prepares to fly down to mexico from texas , where war began in 1846 , debate in mexico city is over how to relate to us .
 consolidated edison opens substation at base of 7 world trade center . its three transformers put out 80 megawatts each , and up to seven more transformers can be added to substation . world trade center used 110 megawatts before sept 11 attacks . substation 's exterior is will be work of environmental art designed by james_carpenter_design_associates .
 us airways and america_west_airlines plan to merge in $ 1.5 billion deal that would create nation 's fifth-largest airline and one of biggest low-fare carriers . combined airline would do business under us airways name but operate from america_west 's headquarters in tempe , ariz . w douglas_parker , chief executive at america_west would run combined airline as chief executive and chairman . bruce_lakefield , chief executive of us_airways , would become vice chairman . combined airline would have $ 10 billion in annual revenue , 361 planes and 44,100 employees but little overlap in routes . parker says there would be some job reductions after merger is completed , but no major furloughs . deal requires approval of federal_loan_board and bankruptcy court .
 russian government proposes raising tax rates moderately on oil sector and lower payroll taxes . prime min mikhail_fradkov says package would lower tax bill for other russian businesses by 280 billion rubles -lrb- $ 9.8 billion -rrb- . new oil industry taxes would bring in estimated $ 2 billion to $ 3.5 billion . finance min aleksei_kudrin also proposes raising dividend tax to 9 percent from 6 percent , starting in 2005 .
 lower south fork fire that has carved black scar on colorado mountainside presages deadly wildfire season this summer . eastern_half_of_nation is awash in rain , but west has had five years of drought and hot early spring that melted mountain snows too quickly for moisture to soak in . fire-risk indexes from southern_california to montana are at or near all-time highs . photos . map . rainy storm fronts that moved through in recent weeks are mixed blessing , encouraging growth of luxuriant grasses that will create fuel source if they dry up earlier than usual .
 real estate executives and civic groups urge new_york_city not to allow douglas_durst to use $ 650 in tax-free bonds to build bank_of_america_office_tower in midtown , saying bonds were intended for redevelopment of lower manhattan after sept 11 attacks . city officials and some business groups counter that building will solidify new_york 's position as international_financial_center , thereby making it good candidate for special tax-free financing known as liberty bonds .
 new_york_city mayor michael_bloomberg names 10 regional superintendents for city 's overhauled school system , choosing people with reputations as demanding leaders . they are irma_zardoya , laura_rodriguez , judith_chin , reyes_irizarry , kathleen_cashin , gloria_buckery , michelle_fratti , carmen_farina , shelley_harwayne , and lucille_swarns . superintendents will report to diana_lam , deputy chancellor for teaching and learning .
 construction has begun on unusual 43-story hotel and rental apartment building on avenue of americas between 38th and 39th streets . project , to be known as bryant_park_tower , will house extended-stay hotel , 357-suite marriott residence inn , with 96 studio and one-bedroom rental apartments on top 10 floors . hotel will be first residence inn in manhattan .
 fox 's cable news channel dramatically consolidated its ratings gains of past few years on election night , drawing 8.1 million viewers , more than tripling its own election night prime-time performance in 2000 and clobbering other cable news networks . nielsen_media_research says cbs , abc and nbc lost millions of viewers . fox news came closer to cbs in ratings than cnn did to fox_news . top rating among cable news channels will make it harder for fox_news to present self as scrappy underdog and could undercut its claim to serve as alternative to what its executives and some of its on-air talent distainfully call media establishment . chairman roger_ailes comments on identity crisis , phone interview . ratings graphs .
 stephen_signorelli is sentenced in plea bargain to one to three years in prison in connection with $ 11.2 million roslyn school embezzlement case . signorelli received no-bid contract and gave money from contract to his companion roslyn schools superintendent frank a tassone . tassone has admitted to stealing more than $ 2 million during his tenure between 1994 and 2002 .
 time warner_inc takes major step toward selling its warner music division for $ 2.5 billion to consortium led by edgar_bronfman jr as its board pulls away from previously favored higher offer from emi group . bronfman 's consortium is backed by thomas_h_lee_partners , media entrepreneur haim_saban , providence_equity_partners , bain capital and quadrangle group .
 filmmaker andy_deemer gives joshua_boden $ 5,000 to start his own religious moyement in exchange for allowing film crew to follow him around and record his efforts . j gordon_melton , director of institute_for_the_study_of_american_religions , says 40 to 45 new religious groups emerge annually , with new_york_city being hotbed for new religions because they tend to form in urban areas . boden founds church of now .
 british government has spent $ 118 million on partnership with cambridge_university and massachusetts_institute_of_technology_to_create_cambridge-mit_institute , which offers three one-year graduate programs with aim to cultivate britain 's future technology entrepreneurs , create jobs and spur growth in british technology sector . inspiration for progams , which began in 2002 , was phenomenal impact mit has had on us economy through creation of technology-related companies by its alumni . marie-louis huber , who started cambridge laboratories after finishing progam , comments .
 four members of national_football_league_'s_oakland_raiders reportedly test positive for tetrahydrogestrinone -lrb- thg -rrb- , newly detectable banned steroid . they are first professional athletes from north american sports league to be identified as having used thg . players are bill_romanowski , barret_robbins , dana_stubblefield and chris_cooper . cbssportsline.com says four have been notified via letter by nfl . revelation of four players on one team testing positive for thg raises concerns of wider use around league and in professional sports as whole . four raiders named as having tested positive are among dozens of athletes who have been subpoenaed to appear before federal grand jury investigating company suspected of manufacturing thg , bay area laboratory co-operative .
 international court in tanzania convicts three rwandans of genocide for putting out media reports that fostered killing of some 800,000 mostly tutsi rwandans in 1994 . three-judge panel convicts newspaper owner hassan_ngeze and radio_station_owners_ferdinand_nahimana and jean-bosco_barayagwiza . decision says station openly called for extermination of hutus , lured victims to killing grounds and broadcast names of people to be killed . ngeze and nahimana are sentenced to life in prison , barayagwiza to 27 years because his rights were violated earlier in case . seven out of ten rwandan tutsis were wiped out in 100 days .
 three american companies that extinguished hundreds of oil well fires in kuwait after persian_gulf war are in touch with pentagon about similar service in iraq . they say iraq could pose extraordinary new challenges , because no one in industry has worked on oil wells tainted by chemical or biological weapons , and no one wants to enter booby-trapped fields .
 belgian jury convicts marc_dutroux of kidnapping , raping and killing six girls in 1995 and kidnapping and raping two other girls who survived . four of victims were buried alive and other two starved to death in underground chamber . former wife michelle_martin and michel_lelievre also faces sentences in crimes . horrific case , failed police investigation and dutroux 's long criminal history recalled .
 more than 15,000 falash mura jews of ethiopia have been waiting up to nine years for israel to process their application papers to move to israel . many left their ancestral homes to gather in addis_ababa , near israeli_embassy , or in gondar . immigration to israel has been far slower than many imagined , but fast enough that few lose hope completely and return home . there have been signs in recent weeks of growing impatience . riots have broken out among people denied right to emigrate . for those who do manage to make trip , life in israel often falls short of expectations .
 closing arguments begin in detroit in trial of four arabs arrested after sept 11 , 2001 attacks . prosecutors say four plotted terrorism . defense tries to cast doubt on government 's case and its crucial witness youssef_hmimssa , onetime associate of defendants . they are charged with document fraud , conspiracy and material support of terrorism . they are farouk ali-haimoud of algeria and abdel-ilah_elmardoudi , ahmed_hannan and karim_koubriti of morocco .
 laura_bush is white_house 's stealth campaigner , steadily raising her profile as she begins several weeks of barnstorming in crucial states . is seen as more assertive and assured than in previous campaign , while maintaining folksy demeanor . proves to be formidable fund-raiser , generating $ 10 million so far this year . will give prime-time speech at republican_national_convention in new_york . targets women , who are not polled as vigorous supporters of pres bush , assuring them that he feels strongly about equality .
 pres bush hails astronauts of space shuttle columbia as seven lost explorers of great daring and purpose , and vows to push forward in conquest of space despite tragedy . speaks to family members and thousands of others at memorial under brilliant blue sky at johnson_space_center in houston . photos . service is held in same place where ronald_reagan honored seven astronauts killed in challenger explosion almost 17 years to the day . columbia memorial , like earlier one , is drenched with raw emotion , memories and jets streaking overhead in missing-man formation . navy chaplain rabbi harold_robinson quotes from hebrew poem in tribute to israeli astronaut ilan ramon . bush offers tributes to seven astronauts .
 sen john_kerry wins caucuses in district of columbia and nevada . kerry has now won 14 of 16 contests and expects another win in feb 17 wisconsin primary . kerry is drawing supporters away from howard_dean , who is said to regard wisconsin as must-win state , though it is unclear whether he will quit race if he loses there . sen john_edwards is hoping for strong second place in wisconsin to presage a two-man race between kerry and himself .
 pink and similar hues are popular with chinese developers , who have also proven partial to tinted , highly reflective glass and rooftops in shape of lotus_blossoms . result is extraordinary number of garish buildings , especially in southeastern china , many of which are empty . one-sixth of luxury residential real estate in shanghai is vacant , quarter in beijing and third in shenzhen .
 new_york_state_education_comr_richard_p_mills reports that more of state 's high school students are taking and passing regents exams required for graduation but achievement gap between whites and blacks persists . 81 percent of whites , 45.4 percent of blacks and 42 percent of hispanics graduated on time last june .
 american idol brings fox_broadcasting_co closer than it has ever been to first place in network supremacy among viewers from 18 to 49 , age group most coveted by advertisers . crucial challenge for fox now becomes avoiding overdosing on show that accounts for 10 percent of its 15 hours of prime-time programming and sometimes 20 percent . dependence could become liability if appeal of idol should fade , as who wants to be a millionaire did for abc . fox executives insist that they are not overusing american idol and that program shows no signs of fading .
 indonesian police chief says car bomb that exploded outside australian embassy in jakarta , killing at least nine people and injuring more than 150 , was work of qaeda-linked islamic group , jemaah islamiyah . this is third terror attack in most populous muslim country in less than two years , and second directed at australians , strong ally of bush administration and contributor of troops in iraq . australian government has loaned police officers to indonesians to help find jemaah islamiyah members in past year , another possible reason for latest bombing .
 new_york atty gen eliot spitzer , acting on complaints from central_park pushcart vendors who work for themistoklis makkos 's m & t pretzel about wage and hour law violations , is expected to announce $ 450,000 settlement in which some vendors will get $ 10,000 each . spitzer 's probers found that for several years , m & t paid vendors only $ 60 a day , even when they worked 14-hour days , meaning vendors often got less than minimum wage . vendors comment .
 lawyers for martin_tankleff say they have new evidence that he did not kill his parents , arlene_and_seymour , at their home in belle terre , li , in 1988 , crime for which tankleff , 17 at time , was convicted in 1990 . say that glenn_harris , ex-convict , says he drove getaway car to tankleff_house on night of murder and believed joseph_creedon and another man were going to rob_house . question actions and motives of k james_mccready , detective in case . mccready shrugs off criticism .
 decision by us military to charge australian citizen , david_hicks , with one terrorism-related offense comes as prime min john_howard is under mounting pressure to have hicks charged , tried and brought home . single charge of providing ` material support for terrorism ' after hicks has been held for five years in guantanamo_bay , cuba , has been met with skepticism , disbelief and some anger in australia .
 developers edwin_cadamartori , carlo argila and hugo_cano have turned to hundreds of barns dotting north fork of long_island as inspiration for creating signature architecture for area . two $ 3 million barn-inspired homes are underway in peconic , two more are planned for year and six to eight in 2008 . local historian richard wines says that prior to this he has seen little sensitivity to historical accuracy in area architecture .
 nassau county comptroller howard_weitzman , completing preliminary audit of county_'s_assessment_review_commission , estimates property tax refund backlog at $ 365 million , roughly $ 45 million higher than commission 's own estimate . says that unless backlog can be cut to $ 230 million by end of 2005 , county will have ` huge hole to fill ' .
 hewlett-packard ` s revenues increased by 9.9 percent in first_quarter_ended_jan_31_from_year_earlier , rising to $ 21.5 billion . profit was $ 943 million , up from $ 936 million year ago . acting chief executive robert_p_wayman says that there will be more layoffs and that work force reduction charge for second_quarter will be close to $ 140 million .
 residents who live near van_cortlandt_park in bronx , new_york_city 's preferred location for $ 1.2 billion water filtration plant , are concerned that construction will be disruptive , that plant will be intrusive and that exhaust from underground operation will be contaminant . construction period is estimated as eight years , during which 28 acres of park would be unusable . decision on where to place plant is due in three months . city has committed more than $ 43 million to project .
 democratic legislators step up criticism of halliburton co for what they say was ` war profiteering ' in iraq . cite pentagon audits that question more than $ 1 billion of company 's bills for work in iraq . democrat-sponsored forum features videotaped testimony from former employee of halliburton subsidairy kellogg_brown_&_root , who says army was charged for twice as many meals as kbr served to troops in early 2004 .
 influential bipartisan group of members of congress , backed by leaders of sept 11 commission , offer bill to enact virtually all of commission 's recommendations , including call for national intelligence director to oversee all spy agencies . commission chairman thomas_kean says law would make american people ` genuinely safer ' . sponsors include sens_john_mccain , joseph_lieberman , tom_daschle and lindsey_graham . photo . congressional leaders are under intense election-year pressure to act on commission report , but warn package could be derailed by opposition from white_house or committee chairmen protecting turf . bill would set up national_intelligence_authority and director to oversee cia and 14 other spy agencies .
 peter_applebome column on reunion of residents of st_dominic 's home in blauvelt , ny , one of last of giant orphanages , which was founded in 1878 and phased out in 1970 's . alumni , most in their 50 's and 60 's , have memories that are mix of bittersweet and happy . say discipline could be sharp and brutal but lessons of respect , tolerance and humility were invaluable . st dominic 's is now home for troubled , mentally ill or disabled teenagers .
 pres hamid_karzai of afghanistan visits his hometown of kandahar for first time since narrowly escaping assassination by taliban sympathers there 18 months ago . urges people to take part in country 's elections in sept , in direct challenge to taliban in its former spiritual capital . his two-day visit to kandahar is first of series of planned trips around country in coming months as presidential candidate .
 crude rockets fired from gaza kill israeli woman and seriously wound two others in sderot , israel , prompting defense minister to warn that palestinian militants would pay ` heavy price ' . death is first from direct rocket fire in 16 months . despite inaccuracy and relative ineffectiveness of rockets , they impose knotty security and political problem on israel . military feels compelled to react , but ends up killing scores of palestinan civilians in strikes on dense urban areas in gaza .
 rupert_murdoch agrees to buy late laurance s rockefeller 's penthouse at 834 fifth avenue , whose $ 44 million price tag is highest ever for residence in manhattan . apartment has 20 rooms making up about 8,000 square feet and about 4,000 square feet of terraces spread over three floors . monthly maintenance is $ 21,469.07 . floor plan .
 prof kenneth_t_jackson article on how subways 's march north through upper manhattan and bronx , and then into brooklyn and queens , forever altered new_york , changing bucolic woods and farmland into urban landscape and dispersing dense population of lower manhattan . 1905 photo of line reaching dyckman street in inwood . new_york today without subway might resemble st louis or detroit , which shrank to forlorn state as highways carried people to suburbs .
 art collectors consign hundreds of millions of dollars ' worth of artworks for november sales at new_york auction houses , sensing that a heated market may soon reach its peak . many seem to fear that bubble may soon burst . sotheby 's and christie 's say their estimates for evening sales are highest since may 1990 , six months before art market crashed . list of sellers reads like who 's who of impressionist , modern and contemporary collectors .
 young adults are being driven away from long_island and other suburbs of new_york_city by soaring housing prices , high taxes and monochrome of suburban life . number of long islanders between ages of 18 and 35 has dropped by 20 percent over last_decade , rate five times national average . county officials worry that absence of young workers will kill growth and economy , and they say they must work to make long_island more enticing and affordable .
 nasa is scheduled to launch new horizons spacecraft on jan 17 . craft will journey to and get first close-up look at pluto . spacecraft will reach jupiter in just 13 months , where gravity assist will speed it on its way to pluto in so-called kuiper belt for arrival in 2015 . compact robot craft will be in hibernation for most of flight to conserve energy . once new horizons completes its study of ice dwarf pluto and its moons , it will be redirected toward other kuiper belt objects . photo . diagrams .
 peter_s_kalikow pursues source of newspaper ads in february that suggested that he had misled backruptcy court in 1991 , and judge_burton r lifland concurs with his conclusion that it was sheldon_solow , fellow new_york_city developer and onetime friend , and marc_s_dreir , solow 's lawyer . lifland finds that solow acted out of disappointment with deal he made with kalikow in 1994 . orders solow to pay kalikow 's expenses and practically invites kalikow to pursue claims against dreir 's firm .
 bush administration offers federal employees catholic health plan sponsored by osf_health . plan excludes payment for contraceptives , abortion and other services . is first for federal workers to be marketed as ` faith-based ' and is part of $ 1 billion plan to involve religious organizations in all types of federal social programs . 1984 law prohibits federal plans from covering most abortions , but 1999 law requires plans to cover contraception . 4 million federal employees will have choice of 249 health plans sponsored by dozens of insurers in 2005 .
 profile of william_morrison supermarkets , britain 's no . 5 supermarket chain , in view of its battle to acquire no . 4 chain , safeway . notes that if any of five rival companies seeking safeway prevails , morrison would be left hopelessly far behind as small regional player . sir kenneth_morrison , chairman , is using that prospect in arguing before antitrust authorities that safeway-morrison merger would create stronger competitors to big three : tesco , j sainsbury and asda unit of walmart_stores .
 more family-owned businesses will be put up for sale as baby boomers retire . survey last year by massmutual_financial_group and raymond_family_business_institute found 39 percent of 1,143 family-owned businesses surveyed said they planned to change leadership within next five years . charles_manoog , who decided to sell family 's plumbing supply business in worcester , mass , comments on stress that comes with selling business .
 historians who have reviewed transcripts of secret questioning of 500 people by sen_joseph_r_mccarthy in 1950 's say they do not support mccarthy 's theories that communist spies were operating at highest levels of government . say transcripts , which were just unsealed , show how mccarthy used secret proceedings to weed out witnesses who could adequately defend themselves against his browbeating . say only those who looked weak or confused , or who asserted their fifth amendment right against self-incrimination , were later called to testify in public by mccarthy . david_oshinsky , mccarthy biographer , says transcripts show mccarthy badgering and bullying witnesses in desperate effort to push his conspiracy theory . dozens of people lost jobs after testifying but none served jail time for not cooperating , despite mccarthy 's repeated threats . mccarthy was censured by senate in dec 1954 and died three_years_later .
 sen john_kerry 's political advisers plan to dispatch sen john_edwards to rural areas in midwest and west , believing he could be powerful advocate for ticket in regions viewed as pres bush 's stronghold . democratic and even some republican officials suggest that kerry 's vice-presidential selection has potential of being most politically significant choice since john_f_kennedy turned to another southerner , lyndon_b_johnson , in 1960 . some experts say johnson pushed texas into democrats ' column and ensured kennedy 's victory . edwards is likely to sway relatively small number of votes , but he is seen as being particularly strong among those voters that white_house and kerry campaigns consider pivotal to outcome in nov . white_house has moved quickly to try to undercut edwards by noting his lack of experience in government and challenging his ability to serve as president should something happen to kerry .
 john_huey will succeed norman_pearlstine as editor in chief of time_inc on jan 1 . two men have worked together for 17 of last 25 years , and pearlstine has been grooming huey as his successor since appointing him as editorial director four_years_ago . huey says he would have decided , as pearlstine did , that matthew_cooper , time magazine reporter , should testify before grand jury in cia leak case .
 william_grimes just browsing column on stubhub.com , web site founded four years ago by stanford_business_school students eric_baker and jeff_flurh through which people who have bought tickets to live events can sell them and people looking for tickets can buy them . stubhub makes money by taking 15 percent cut from purchase price of ticket from seller and 10 percent from buyer .
 conductor valery_gergiev puts up $ 500,000 in cash to help bail philanthropist alberto_vilar out of jail , despite fact that vilar failed to keep $ 14 million pledge to gergiev 's kirov opera in 2000 . government agrees to vilar 's release based on those funds and other backing to secure $ 10 million bond . vilar is subject to electronic monitoring and is confined to his manhattan apartment . vilar , in telephone interview , declares his innocence , criticizes news coverage of case and says he is searching for new lawyers .
 bad august financial results for domestic airlines dash hopes that strong end to summer might help airlines ride out usually weak autumn period . trade groups and analysts say industry losses will near $ 5 billion in 2004 . passenger loads rose 7.4 percent in august , but amount of money that airlines collected for each ticket fell , after flattening out earlier in year . airlines , which have been offering autumn fare deals since midsummer , step up promotions . financial graphs .
 editorial says memo released by justice_department underscores poor choice pres bush made when he decided to promote white_house counsel alberto_gonzales to be attorney general . contends gonzales is man who oversaw earlier memos condoning what amounts to torture and scoffed at geneva conventions . questions bush 's judgment in deciding to elevate man so closely identified with scandal of abu_ghraib , contempt for due process at guantanamo_bay and seemingly unending revelations of abuse of afghan and iraqi prisoners of war by american soldiers .
 gretchen_morgenson column on sfbc_international , nation 's largest administrator of clinical trials for drug makers and medical device manufacturers . says newly installed management at company seems interested in silencing critics and avoiding kind of sweeping changes to their operations that some investors would prefer . sfbc conducted studies for merck_&_co on vioxx after it was approved by food_and_drug_administration . vioxx was withdrawn from market in 2004 . sen charles_e_grassley , finance_committee chairman , opened probe into sfbc , and securities_and_exchange_commission came calling .
 profile of sheila_c_johnson , co-founder of black entertainment television and one of wealthiest black women in america . she is reshaping her life after breakup of her 33-year marriage to robert_l_johnson . in 2000 , johnsons sold their company , bet holdings , to viacom for $ 2.3 billion in stock , splitting $ 1.5 billion of proceeds . she has donated millions of dollars to variety of institutions .
 new_york_yankees and texas_rangers reportedly agree in principle to deal that would bring top player alex_rodriguez to ny for alfonso_soriano and player to be determined . rangers would include some $ 60 million in deal to cut yankee 's average payments to rodriguez to about $ 16 million from $ 25.5 million .
 construction work on expansion of museum of modern art is on schedule , but project has grown considerably in both scope and expense . there have been $ 31 million worth of changes to original plans , along with unbudgeted expenses totaling $ 21 million , bringing total cost to $ 858 million . museum needs to raise more than $ 200 million to pay for project , with 18 months to go before it opens its doors once again in manhattan .
 roberto_colaninno 's investment company immsi is in talks to acquire controlling stake in piaggio , company that makes vespa scooter . piaggio is controlled by deutsche_morgan_grenfell_private_equity , which would 86 percent stake in 1999 for $ 753 million . texas_pacific_group owns 10 percent and remainder is held by spanish equity fund mercapital-rabasa .
 hundreds of plaintiffs ' lawyers who claim that people were injured or killed by painkiller vioxx plan to meet next week in pasadena , calif , and las_vegas to lay groundwork for nationwide legal assault against drug 's maker , merck . j michael_papantonio , lawyer in pensacola , fla , who organized las vegas meeting , says about 500 plaintiffs ' lawyers are expected to attend . the lancet , respected british medical journal , publishes analysis of all clinical trials of vioxx completed by 2001 , and concluded that merck and food and drug administration should have known enough about drug 's hazards to withdraw it years ago .
 airlines around world , already battered by industry 's worst downturn , cut back even more on their schedules in wake of war in iraq , especially on flights to middle_east . some carriers also say they will have to cut costs by laying off workers or reducing pay . service cuts by lufthansa_airlines , air france , klm , singapore_airlines , american_airlines and northwest_airlines noted . air canada says it will cut 3,600 jobs by end of year .
 profile of and interview with bob_danzig , 71 , former chief executive of hearst newspaper group who was abandoned by his parents at age 2 and spent his childhood and youth in foster homes . danzig , who has become motivational speaker , spends time touring new jersey , usually with friend and new jersey division of youth and family services commissioner james_davy , offering inspirational messages to beleaguered state child-welfare workers .
 new_york_city council speaker christine_c_quinn clamps down on process by which council members request money for pet projects , angering many of them . requires members to sign form when creating or renewing financing by may 17 of each year . limits each member to four requests that also must be signed by nine other members to demonstrate wider support for project . signers must represent at least three boroughs .
 new_york_city_education_dept seeks chef to oversee production of 800,000 meals daily for city 's 1.1 million students . wants meals that will cost $ 2 a serving or less , give students nutrition they need to perform better in class and appeal to as many students as possible , since city is reimbursed by federal government according to how many students are served meals . city spent $ 375 million to feed its students in 2003 , and was reimbursed by federal and state government for $ 300 million . now seeks to narrow gap and eventually break even .
 virginia miles , 88 , who has been giving to neediest cases fund since she was 12 , donates $ 100 to fund . 2004 fund-raising campaign has raised over $ 2.9 million . campaign 's total does not include bequests of $ 2.5 million from estate_of_ludwig_rebenfeld and $ 1.08 million from estate of austin o hooey . fund invests contributions from trusts and estates of over $ 50,000 in endowment . miles photo .
 evidence that has convinced metropolitan museum of art to return set of hellenistic silver , prized sixth-century b c greek pottery vase and four other vessels , to italy , where objects were looted , may have been available as early as 2003 despite met 's skepticism of italian claims . documents reveal that in may 2003 met director philippe_de_montebello told giuliano_urbani , then italy 's cultural minister , that museum might be willing to cede title to 15 pieces of silver if it were allowed to keep set for 25 more years .
 seven letters respond to michael_s_dukakis and daniel j b mitchell july 25 op-ed article proposing raising minimum wage and increasing enforcement as effective ways to deal with illegal immigration . bob_diefendorf , anthony_bolzan and joanna fancy support their proposal , but bob_bilokonsky , paul_nachman , sean_parnell and edward_wronka oppose it .
 power struggle for control of manchester_united , one of biggest sports names in world and $ 1.3 billion company on london_stock_exchange , between company 's manager sir alex_ferguson and company 's largest shareholders , leading irish horse breeder john_magnier and malcolm_glazer , owner of tampa_bay_buccaneers . power struggle stems from earlier dispute over ferguson 's stud rights to european_champion_racehorse_rock_of_gibraltar , which is owned by magnier .
 avner_cohen op-ed article on legacy of golda_meir , who turned israel away from dangerous consideration of using nuclear weapons as ` last resort ' in early , desperate days of yom kippur war 30 years ago and instead flew secretly to washington to enlist american aid that turned tide . says her prudence not only avoided nuclear catastrophe , it demonstrated to world that israel was responsible and trusted nuclear custodian and contributed significantly to creation of nuclear taboo .
 bob_wright , chairman of nbc_universal , says telemundo_communications_group , which it acquired in 2001 , is now its most important asset . telemundo has long been also-ran in growing spanish-language television market . nbc has spent over $ 50 million to create programming because rival univision_communications_inc , which dominates market , has stranglehold on main mexican programming pipeline . telemundo executives say strategy gives them more flexibility than univision , which is locked into long-term deal with mexico 's televisa . strategy also lets network stress american hispanic experience in its shows . has secured significant ratings increases for telemundo .
 panel discussion , as part of series to honor late author isaac_asimov , brings together five scientists to debate theories of universe at new_york_city 's american museum of natural history . panelists are retired princeton professor james_peebles , mit 's dr alan_guth , author of leading big bang theory of inflation , princeton theorist dr paul_steinhardt , gravitational theorist dr lee_smolin from perimeter_institute_for_theoretical_physics in ontario and princeton astrophysicist dr david_spergel . panel is moderated by dr neil_degrasse_tyson of hayden planetarium . discussions center around origins of universe and relatively new discovery of dark energy and its influence .
 democratic members of senate_judiciary_committee continue their calls for release of documents from judge_john_g_roberts jr 's years as senior lawyer in first bush administration . sen patrick_j_leahy , senior democrat on panel , says documents could help illuminate roberts 's views in civil rights , privacy and access to justice . briefs signed by roberts , analyzed one way , are seen as reflecting cramped view of role of courts , exalting technicalities over justice . viewed amother way , they represent exacting fidelity to law and keen awareness of limited power of federal courts to right every wrong .
 jenny_anderson insider column cautions about small , inconsistently profitable investment banking firms that are going public , hoping to capitalize on sizzling capital markets boom . focuses on cowen_group , unit of french_bank_societe_generale , whose profits plummeted 77 percent and revenue rose 1 percent last year . holds such firms may enjoy short-term pop , but some lack adequate earnings diversity and have failed to prove themselves as great investments .
 architects richard_meier and david_childs unveil master plan for four buildings , park and ice rink on part of nine-acre site near united_nations . say design , part of four-parcel property between 35th and 41st streets that developer sheldon_solow bought from con_edison , will restore sense of manhattan to edge of east_river .
 dave_kehr at the movies column : actress jamie_lee_curtis comments on her career and surprise at being cast in new movie freaky friday . linda_hope , eldest daughter of late comedian bob_hope , comments on his movies in light of tribute opening at lincoln_center 's walter_reade theater . producer ismail merchant comments on collaboration with director james_ivory and screenwriter ruth_prawer_jhabvala on new movie le divorce .
 alternative school on japan 's remote hatoma_island in ryukyus accepts children from big cities who have dropped out of school . elderly islanders see program as way to keep community alive by bringing some children to island . island 's population has dropped from peak of 600 decades ago to 58 , including 10 students and nine teachers . students live with local foster parents and school and island sustain each other . most children end up stronger for experience . more than 131,000 japanese children , including three percent of junior high school students , are dropouts .
 new hiv test leads health workers in north_carolina to identify what they and federal officials say is first outbreak of infection ever among college students . outbreak , reported in san_francisco at 11th annual conference on retroviruses and opportunistic infections , inolved 84 hiv cases in male students ages 18 to 30 from jan_1_, 2000 , through dec_31_, 2003 . students , most of whom were black , were enrolled in 37 colleges , all but 4 in north_carolina .
 sen john_kerry begins campaigning just half-hour after pres bush finishes speech to republican delegates . charges that bush is ` unfit ' to lead country and misled america into iraq war . scores bush and vice pres cheney for attacking his patriotism and reminds audience that both refused to serve in vietnam . accuses convention of distorting his positions and record . cites ` record of failure ' in bush 's first term .
 howard_dean , who spent nearly $ 40 million only to lose in iowa and new_hampshire , names roy_neel , longtime friend of al_gore , as campaign chief , prompting abrupt resignation of joe_trippi , who built dean 's grass-roots strength . photos . dean asks 500 staff members to forego paychecks for two weeks to help build ` leaner , meaner ' campaign that will be ` long war of attrition ' requiring centralized decision-making . choice of ultimate washington insider is stark shift for insurgent campaign powered by political neophytes , but neel was hired to bring order and professionalism to troops that trippi led more by inspiration . once-flush dean campaign now has only up to $ 5 million on hand .
 excerpts from new books set in new_york_city : triangle : the fire that changed america by david_von_drehle , metropolis found : new_york is book country 25th anniversary collection , after the ball : gilded age secrets , boardroom betrayals , and the party that ignited the great wall street scandal of 1905 by patricia_beard and where 'd you get those . new_york_city 's sneaker culture : 1960-1987 by bobbito_garcia .
 hsbc_bank_usa unit of hsbc_holdings is mounting elaborate campaign , with budget estimated at $ 10 million to $ 15 million , meant to stimulate business in increasingly competitive new_york market . campaign is first major new effort for hsbc in us since jwt and other agencies owned by wpp_group were named last may to handle bank 's worldwide account , with spending estimated at $ 600 million .
 internet weather services like weather.com , weatherbug and accuweather report sharp rise in traffic for week when winter storm blanketed east , as well as for whole month of snowstorms in midwest and pacific_northwest , floods and ice storms in southeast and record low temperatures in parts of minnesota . expect strong advertising sales growth for january . are also profiting on sales of premium service subscriptions .
 us government reports that 248,000 jobs were created in may and 947,000 jobs were added to work force over last_three_months , signaling end to long period of almost uninterrupted job losses under pres bush . employment gains provide bush with fresh dose of positive economic news as election campaign heats up . accelerating job growth , if it continues at or near pace of last three months , would save bush from becoming first president since herbert_hoover to preside over decline in jobs during four-year term .
 sec of state condoleezza_rice says israel 's plan to expand a west bank settlement is at odds with us policy . diplomatic furor erupts over remarks reportedly made by us amb to israel daniel_c_kurtzer to new_israeli_foreign_ministry employees . israeli newspaper reports that kurtzer said us had never reached understanding with israel that would let it keep its large settlement blocks in west_bank . it also quotes him as saying he expected prime min ariel_sharon 's government to fall before completing its term in nov 2006 .
 yahoo_inc says third-quarter profit more than doubled and that biggest and fastest-growing driver of revenue andprofit was advertising , not fees . revenue was $ 356.8 million , up 43 percent . profit grew far faster than revenue , largely because its costs increased only 25 percent . fastest-growing segment was what it calls marketing services -- essentially advertising -- with revenue of $ 245.1 million , up 48 percent . revenue from fee-based services was $ 79.4 million , up 38 percent .
 sports center , boumerdes , algeria , serves as mortuary for people killed in earthquake . town 's own death toll reportedly stands at 835 , with 1,222 missing and 3,422 hurt . national death toll is over 1,600 . rescuers pull at least eight people alive from ruins , including child , 2 . mostly find corpses . work 24 hours a day , but effort seems chaotic .
 researchers report rates of most common form of breast cancer dropped remarkable 15 percent from august 2002 to december 2003 . analysis , by researchers from m d anderson_cancer_center based on national_cancer_institute_report , reinforces link between hormone therapy and cancer risk . millions of women abandoned hormone treatment after 2002 study concluded that hormones slightly increased breast cancer risk . investigators say further study is needed to confirm link , but that hormone hypothesis seems most likely explanation . hypothesis is that when women stopped taking menopausal hormones , cancers stopped growing or even regressed . most striking decrease in rates was in women ages 50 to 69 , group most likely to take hormone replacements . overall breast cancer rates dropped by 7 percent .
 france and germany , with same position against pres bush 's war in iraq , get far different reactions from americans , who consider reflexively consider france sissified and germans more manly . photos . cultural historian ann_douglas notes that germans are getting away with their opposition because americans , as usual , are so eager to tar-and-feather france . that bastion of sensual pleasure and elite cultural refinement is also made-to-order enemy for texan in white_house .
 defense sec_donald_h_rumsfeld , in testimony before house and senate armed services committees , apologizes to iraqis abused by their us military jailers at abu ghraib prison . accepts responsibility for misdeeds of soldiers on his watch , but says he will not resign simply to quiet partisan critics . also takes responsibility for failing to tell pres bush and congress about developing scandal . is seeking official compensation for abused detainees . says special panel will be given 45 days to examine thoroughness of existing investigations and determine whether additional studies need to be initiated . says retired air_force gen charles_horner , former defense_sec james r schlesinger and former rep tillie_fowler have agreed to be on panel .
 us and britain open week of intensive pressure on france and other nations to support quick passage of second un security council resolution authorizing military force against iraq but make little progress . chief un weapons inspectors hans_blix and dr mohamed_elbaradei will travel to baghdad for two days of meetings , giving iraqis another chance to clarify long list of unanswered questions about weapons programs . upcoming appearance of sec_of_state_colin_l_powell_before_security_council , where he is expected to disclose previously classified information on iraq 's weapons programs , discussed .
 harvey_r_miller , 74 , most prominent bankruptcy lawyer in nation , has left investment_bank_greenhill_&_co to return to weil , gotshal_&_manges , manhattan law firm where he practiced for 32 years . miller performed advisory work at greenhill rather than legal work . miller made weil , gotshal_powerhouse in bankruptcy law over three decades . he comments .
 david_ross , popular radio talk show host in seattle , is democratic candidate for congress in washington 's eighth district . republican candidate is dave_reichert , king_county sheriff best known for his role in solving case of green river killer , who murdered almost 50 women and terrified seattle area for nearly two decades . alex_alben , ross 's democratic opponent , criticizes him for continuing his radio show after entering race .
 new jersey sports and exposition authority approves privately developed $ 1.3 billion sports and entertainment complex abutting continental_airlines_arena in meadowlands . action follows three years of debate over project , known as meadowlands_xanadu , which has been supported by gov james_e_mcgreevey . developers are mills_corp , mack-cali_realty and kanam . map . artist 's rendering .
 market place column says high-profile mergers and acquisitions announced recently are dressed up as radical industry-changing events , but are hardly like big transactions announced in late 1990 's and early 2000 that tried to revolutionize business models and redefine markets . notes today 's deals are basic add-ons . recent mergers discussed include $ 5.8 billion acquisition of siebel by oracle , ebay 's $ 2.6 billion buyout of skype and wachovia 's $ 3.4 billion acquisition of westcorp .
 human genome project announces , at national_institutes_of_health_news_conference , completion of project with successful sequencing of human genome . announcement coincides with 50th anniversay of james_watson and francis_crick 's discovery of dna 's structure . scientists argue , however , that sequencing is not complete , and although 3.1 billion units of dna are established , estimated 2.9 billion base pairs are , as of yet , unidentified . scientists praise accomplishment , but push for completion . sanger_institute provided 30 percent of final data . other contributors include whitehead_institute , and genome sequencing center at washington_university in st_louis . total spending for project is upwards of $ 3 billion .
 michael_winerip column reports that true education goes on even at taft_high_school in bronx , which is on state list of failing schools and managed to graduate only 123 of 550 students who began ninth grade four years ago . focuses on jorge_ballinas , son of mexican immigrant and class valedictorian with scholarship to penn_state , and teachers who steered his path .
 william_safire op-ed column on growing evidence of financial fraud in iraq oil-for-food program headed by united_nations_asst_sec gen benon_sevan during saddam hussein regime . cites reports of systematic 10 percent kickback scheme on billions of dollars of contracts . says un proposal for internal investigation is inadequate , and united_states should press for full accounting .
 senate leaders explore ways to combine sen blanche lincoln 's bill to extend $ 400-per-child increase in child tax credit to 6.5 million low-wage families with sen charles_e_grassley 's bill to extend credit to married couples with combined incomes between $ 110,000 and $ 150,000 . agreement may founder over democratic objections to its cost , which would be about $ 10 billion over 10 years .
 jonathan_fuerbringer column discusses stocks likely to benefit if dollar continues to fall in value . cites forecast by riskmetrics that standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index could rise 3 percent and nasdaq 100 index almost 5 percent if dollar falls added 5 percent against euro . notes fall in dollar will not help bonds .
 martinsdale , montana , population about 60 , is home to one of state 's biggest fortunes , part of which has been on display at charles_m_bair family museum , filled with antique furniture and other memorabilia of late ranching magnate . photos . town depends on museum for tourism and is in uproar over scheduled closing by advisory board that controls late alberta m bair 's $ 40-million trust . trustees note that fewer than 5,000 people visited home-turned-museum last_summer .
 nasd_censures_morgan_stanley and fines it $ 2 million for offering brokers $ 1 million in prizes and rewards in broad-based incentive program intended to promote sales of morgan_stanley mutual funds . censures bruce_f_alonso , head of firm 's retail sales unit , and fines him $ 250,000 for his role in sales program . has barred such sales programs since 1999 because they give brokers financial reason to put their interests ahead of those of their clients .
 may day celebrations in moscow reflect fact that russia 's quadrennial election season has begun . in pushkin_square , thousands gather to hear leading figures of united_russia , kremlin 's handpicked political party , denounce pres vladimir_v_putin 's government as tool of business moguls and its economic and social policies as ` a disgrace ' . putin 's overwhelming popularity shows no signs of ebbing , but opinion polls show united_russia 's approval rating falling to low 20 's . communist party , which stages its own parade , is picking up small gains , matching or beating united russia 's rating .
 arts briefing column : britain 's lottery fund reportedly awards $ 18.4 million to national_gallery in london to help in its struggle to keep raphael painting , madonna of the pinks , which has been on loan to gallery since 1992 . j paul_getty museum in los_angeles has offered to purchase it for $ 56 million .
 article on prof karen_bosley , who , after 35 years in post , has been relieved of her duties as faculty adviser to award-winning viking news , monthly student newspaper at ocean_county_college in toms_river , nj . bosley , 63 , says college president jon_larson has grown weary of newspaper articles critical of him . larson insists bosley was removed because she was not adequately performing her job .
 new_york_city_education_department , acknowledging obesity epidemic among students , is reducing fat content in 800,000 meals served daily and banning candy , soda and other sugary snacks from school vending machines . federal guidelines call for 30 percent of calories to come from fat over five-day period , but city will set 30 percent limit for each meal by 2008 , starting in september .
 daniel_c_kurtzer , american ambassador to israel for last_four_years , reflects on what he calls a really hard job . calls american-israeli relationship most complex and politically challenging of any us has in world . notes leaders of two countries inevitably have close relations and connections that often bypass ambassadors in tel_aviv and washington , and that each country is key factor in domestic politics of the other . kurtzer 's replacement , richard_h_jones , has served in several arab countries but never in israel before .
 profile of angela_warnick_buchdahl , 31 , assistant rabbi and cantor at westchester_reform_temple in scarsdale , ny . buchdahl , first asian-american to be invested as rabbi or cantor in reform movement in north_america and first woman to complete both rabbinical and cantorial studies at hebrew_union_college , is daughter of ashkenazi jewish father and korean buddhist mother .
 david_brinkley , wry reporter and commentator whose nbc broadcasts with chet_huntley helped define television news , dies at age 82 . his long , influential role in journalism , from radio broadcasts in 1940 's , to covering presidential conventions and inaugurating sunday morning program for abc reviewed . photos . brinkley 's son joel is new_york_times correspondent , son alan is columbia_university history professor and son john is director of us_institute_for_peace .
 iraq 's prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki and sunni lawmakers shout insults at one another during boisterous session of parliament . after maliki outlines baghdad 's new security plan , sunni lawmaker abdul_nasir_al-janabi questions his trustworthiness . maliki accuses janabi of being involved in sectarian kidnappings . parliament members engage in shouting match , hurling insults . uproar comes at time when maliki is under increasing pressure from bush administration to confront sectarian violence . sunni leaders and critics remain skeptical about maliki 's desire or ability to confront shiite militias , particularly mahdi_army_of_moktada_al-sadr .
 electoral authorities in mexico say felipe calderon holds lead of one percentage point over andres manuel_lopez_obrador in presidential election and that it will take at least two days to carefully sift return . both calderon , fiscal conservative backed by big business , and lopez_obrador , fiery leftist whose campaign championed country 's poor , claim victory , and lopez_obrador says he will accept defeat only if his own review of results shows he has lost .
 hundreds of thousands of peace demonstrators gather in european capitals to march against united states-led campaign that threatens war with iraq . nowhere is a huge turnout so politically fraught as it is in london , where large turnout could undermine washington 's staunchest european ally , prime min tony_blair , denying him show of consensus in his own country .
 new york times poll finds that 53 percent of new yorkers now disapprove of michael_r_bloomberg 's performance as mayor , up from 41 percent in october and 26 percent in june , and that , beyond his job performance , 30 percent have generally unfavorable impression of him , up from 13 percent in june . respondents acknowledge city 's budget problems and some credit bloomberg with progress toward solving them , but they say his service cuts and tax increases have gone too far . their comments about his personal style -- standoffish -- and wealth suggest they may account for some of slippage . most people polled and a majority of blacks give positive ratings to performance of police . 84 percent continue to have favorable impression of new_york . other findings .
 panicky depositors line up outside three abacus_federal_savings_bank 's six branches , new_york_city , to withdraw funds after bank dismisses chinatown branch manager carol_lim for allegedly embezzling over $ 1 million . bank officials hold depositors ' fears are unfounded . federal banking regulator richard_riccobono says dismissal is no cause for run . notes bank is federally insured and financially sound . police order early closing , citing safety concerns and size of crowd .
 architects proposing designs for world trade center site in many ways have been acting like media-age politicians . two finalists from original pack of seven design teams -- daniel_libeskind from berlin and rafael_vinoly and frederic_schwartz , two front men on think team -- grasped political nature of selection process from the start , playing straight to the public as if citizens of new_york_city were clients for job .
 delta_air_lines pilots overwhelmingly approve new five-year contract with $ 1 billion in annual concessions sought by airline , which had threatened to file for bankruptcy if pilots did not acquiesce . deal , which cuts pay by 32.5 percent , would reduce salary of highest-paid delta pilot by more than $ 90,000 , to about $ 185,000 a year . it ends an era of luxurious pilot pay in airline industry , but does not end delta 's problems .
 daimlerchrysler_ag , germany 's largest and world 's fifth-largest carmaker , is out of step with both industry and consumers as company opens frankfurt international motor show . daimlerchrysler 's most trumpeted new models at show are mercedes-benz_mclaren sports car with price tag of close to $ 400,000 , and majestic chrysler sedan , 300c . both autos seem ill suited to leaner economic times . company 's chrysler group continues to hemorrhage money , prompting rumors of new cost-cutting plan , which company denies . daimlerchrysler executive refuses to rule out more layoffs at chrysler , which has already cut 26,000 jobs . daimlerchrysler chief executive jurgen_e_schrempp says markets are not growing , europe is not growing and company has overcapacity in us .
 richard_rushfield 's article on hollywood_hell_house , parody of evangelical christian hell houses by actress maggie_rowe . says production , which will be performed every saturday night through halloween , features comedians sarah_silverman and david_cross , actor richard_belzer , tv host bill_maher and former pornography actress traci_lords at steve_allen theater on hollywood boulevard . says hell houses have become popular seasonal displays in recent years mainly beause of kits that keenan_roberts , assembly of god minister in broomfield , colo , writes and sells for $ 200 each . adds kits provide scripts for seven basic scenes that make up hell_house repertory . jill_soloway , who is producing hell_house in hollywood , and roberts comment .
 article on growing pains at riverhead charter school in calverton , long_island , opened in september 2001 and run by private company , edison schools . riverhead , island 's third charter school , has grown from 187 students to 335 . new_york_state_education_department review in november cited school 's failure to provide enough teachers and aides for special-education students , $ 800,000 debt , inadequate classroom space and other problems .
 russ_carnahan is running for congressional seat in missouri being vacated by rep richard a gephardt . carnahan 's sister robin is running for secretary of state . both are democrats and stand good chance of winning . carnahans have been in missouri politics since 1940 's . mel_carnahan was so popular that missouri elected him to senate even after he died in plane crash in 2000 .
 pres bush promised in his nomination acceptance speech to expand several existing programs , but has not explained how he would fund increases , some of which figure to accelerate budget deficit over next decade . most expensive proposals offer tax breaks and credits that would add $ 50 billion to $ 100 billion to $ 2.4 trillion in tax cuts projected over next decade .
 debra west cross westchester column . incumbent briarcliff mayor peter_chatzky , unhappy with century-old non-partisan people 's caucus system under which he was elected two years ago , asked not to be nominated during january caucus and announced plan to run only in general election . people 's caucus endorsed village trustee william_vescio . michael_treanor , democratic candidate for mayor of pelham_manor , favors merging some municipal services with pelham . irvington mayor dennis_flood , republican , for first time in 11 years , is facing challenger , erin_malloy .
 healthsouth has survived business and public relations mightmare that began two years ago when justice_department and securities_and_exchange_commission accused it of accounting fraud totaling $ 2.6 billion . avoided bankruptcy , made deal to stave off default on its bonds , placated bankers and restored morale among downcast employees , who have all along kept its hospitals and clinics operating . new management is concentrating on core businesses -- its 257 rehabilitation hospitals and 1,105 rehabilitation outpatient clincs and surgery centers . trial of richard_m_scrushy brings national attention back to bad old days of healthsouth . new chief executive jay_grinney has promised to resolve some of company 's most pressing problems .
 montreal-mirabel international airport will close on oct 31 . was promoted as airport of future when it was built at cost of $ 1 billion in late 1960 's and was intended to help montreal develop as global cultural and financial center . airport was planned to handle 50 million passengers per year , but never had more than 2.8 million . airport will continue to handle cargo flights , but terminal will be converted to other use .
 christopher_hitchens article on mythologies of the 1960 's discusses books hippie by barry miles , what 's going on . : california and vietnam era edited by marcia a eymann and charles_wollenberg and back from the land : how young americans went to nature in the 1970s , and why they came back by eleanor_agnew .
 port initiative , joint project of port authority of new_york and new jersey and new jersey and new_jersey_economic_development_authority , created list of 17 brownfield sites in state that could be cleaned up and turned into intermodal ports . carteret site is former landfill , and first such iport under construction . cushman_&_wakefield says there are 60 million consumers with collective purchasing power of more than $ 1 trillion overnight delivery range of new jersey .
 bruce_weber critic 's notebook on current political theater in america . discusses english playwright david_edgar 's two-play cycle continental divide , at oregon_shakespeare_festival . also comments on other recent dramas voicing alarm at nation 's ` conservative and imperialist drift ' : arthur_miller 's resurrection blues , caryl_churchill 's far away , tony_kushner 's homebody / kabul , lanford_wilson 's book of days , erik_jensen-jessica_blank play the exonerated , john_patrick_shanley 's dirty story and a r gurney 's o jerusalem .
 long island journal column . 50 plus senior news publisher frank_trotta , who has just turned 50 , participates in his first 50 plus senior news golf tournament and is set to convene his fourth island-wide 50-plus life styles expo at suffolk_county_community_college 's brentwood campus . anthony_destefano , chief executive of priests for life , catholic_group opposed to abortion , comments on his new book , a travel guide to heaven .
 bush administration officials say united states will ask united_nations to lift international penalties against iraq in phases , retaining un supervision of iraq 's oil sales for now but gradually transferring other parts of its economy to new_iraqi_authority assembled with us guidance . say us will seek three or four security council resolutions over several months to lift sanctions . seek to counter efforts by france , russia and other council members to link lifting of sanctions to broader role for un .
 jon_pareles critic 's notebook column on bob_dylan , subject of two projects : new two-cd set no direction home : the soundtrack -- the bootleg series vol 7 and no direction home , documentary dvd directed by martin_scorsese that will be released on september 20 and broadcast on pbs on september 26 and 27 .
 mcdonald 's restaurant in pushkin_square , which serves 30,000 customers a day and is busiest mcdonald 's in world , is jewel in growing real estate empire that ranks company among largest corporate landowners in russia . mcdonald 's real estate venture began in early 1990 's , when it was unable to convert rubles into another currency and bought farmland and built office towers , distribution center and factory in moscow suburbs . chain now employs 17,000 russians in 37 cities and plans to open 25 more restaurants this_year and 75 more by 2007 .
 employment figures show job growth slowed to crawl in august . swing states ohio and missouri have both lost jobs . bureau of labor_statistics_shows_employment climbed in 30 states and declined in 20 others . unusually slow pace of job creation is one of pres bush 's biggest domestic weaknesses . polls show voters remain uneasy with both bush and sen john_kerry on economic leadership .
 pres bush , on first day of meeting of pacific rim leaders in santiago , chile , steps up pressure on iran over nuclear weapons production even as he tries to establish unified front against nuclear challenge from north_korea . meets with leaders of china , japan and south_korea , urging each to draw north_korea back into six-nation negotiations . issues direct challenge to kim_jong_il to get rid of his weapons program . calls indications that iran is accelerating its uranium enrichment program ` a very serious matter ' that undercuts iran 's denials that it is seeking to build weapons .
 argus research chief economist richard_yamarone is one of few economists that is resisting increasing optimism on jobs . yamarone is sticking with his prediction of slim gain of 95,000 jobs for april as investors await labor_department 's release of month 's figures on may 7 . says it does not feel like economy created another 100,000 or 200,000 or 300,000 new payroll jobs in april . citigroup economist brian_jones expects april data of 250,000 new jobs .
 gigantic white statue of jesus , six stories high , looms over roads and cornfields in monroe , ohio , inspiration of local evangelical pastors lawrence and darlene_bishop . photo . their 3,400-member solid rock church spent $ 250,000 on statue that some congregants say keeps watch over stretch of interstate 75 where twelve people died in two years before image appeared in 2003 .
 assemblyman david_sidikman , democrat of nassau_county , ny , is one of three state lawmakers going down to rare primary defeats . sidikman 's challenger , charles_d_lavine , is supported by nassau_county exec thomas_r_suozzi , who has been leading statewide campaign to displace incumbents as way to end gridlock in state government in albany . on staten_island , assemblyman robert a straniere loses republican primary to vincent_ignizio . assemblyman barry s grodenchik of queens loses democratic primary to jimmy k meng .
 health officials say that at least 39 people in new jersey and long_island , ny , were infected with e coli_bacteria in november food poisoning outbreak that has been traced to taco_bell restaurant chain . taco bell voluntarily closes one restaurant in south_plainfield , nj , and eight outlets on long_island in what it calls temporary precaution . health officials acknowledge delaying announcement of contamination , in part over concerns for public reaction . some critics question delay . most serious cases involved two new jersey children who remain hospitalized .
 pres bush , completing visit to britain , says turkey has become new front in campaign against terrorism and that britain and united_states will work together to help turkey head off further attacks . says he and prime min tony_blair will not be driven apart or intimidated by attacks on british targets in turkey . visits blair 's parliamentary district in northeast_england with blair . several hundred demonstrators protest his presence , sedgefield .
 public lives column interview with associated_press former executive officer louis d boccardi , who joined ap in 1967 and ran it from 1985 until his retirement in 2003 . boccardi was know for encoraging fairness and balance in ap stories . was appointd to two-man commission that investigated controversy over cbs 's sixty minutes ii broadcast critical of pres george w bush 's military service . report , which was done at behest of cbs , criticizes shortcomings of cbs and its news anchor dan rather .
 democrat christine_o_gregoire is declared governor-elect of washington state by 129 votes out of 2.9 million cast . photos . certification by secretary of state sam_reed comes 58 days after election , following two recounts . republican dino_rossi indicate he will challenge results and reed , also republican , suggests rossi has right to review balloting .
 open forum sponsored by assn_of_state_democratic_chairs hears from eight candidates for chairmanship of democratic_national_committee : ron_kirk , donald_fowler , howard_dean , simon_rosenberg , james_j_blanchard , wellington e webb , rep martin_frost and harold_m_ickes . all eight call for greater control for state party leaders over what party says and does . express concern that democratic party is in trouble .
 mexico 's gross domestic product rose 1.3 percent in 2003 and 2 percent in fourth_quarter compared with year earlier . government is forecasting growth of 3.1 percent . many business leaders say china 's low wages , lax regulation and government incentives are siphoning off mexico 's much-needed manufacturing jobs . mexico 's role as chief low-wage producer for american market appears to be jeopardy . series of investment announcements in recent weeks suggest that some version of that role is still secure .
 tarnishing of garson name in brooklyn political circles goes beyond indictment of justice_gerald_p_garson on charges that he accepted cash and other gifts as payment for preferential treatment in state_supreme_court . michael_j_garson , his cousin and also state_supreme_court judge , is being investigated by prosecutors for draining bank acounts of wealthy aunt . investigators are also looking at ascension to civil court bench of robin_garson , gerald 's wife , and are reviewing financial records from her campaign , although no one has accused her of wrongdoing .
 op-ed article : six defense and foreign-policy experts suggest what questions senators should ask robert_m_gates when he appears before senate_armed_services_committee for his confirmation hearing as secretary of defense . they are former defense secs william_s_cohen and melvin_laird , prof samantha_power , danielle_pletka of american_enterprise_institute and former united_states_army officers donald_kerrick and kalev i sepp .
 hurricane ivan leaves 75 people dead in caribbean and at least 40 dead in united_states . storm has been down-graded to tropical depression but spent record 10 days as major hurricane . destruction is concentrated along gulf_coast . storm spawned tornadoes in several states , left hundreds of thousands of people without power , damaged homes and caused flash floods . red cross shelters take in as many as 40,000 people .
 durham_county dist atty michael_b_nifong announces his resignation as he faces disciplinary charges for his handling of sexual assault prosecution against three former duke_university lacrosse players who were later declared innocent . apologizes to players , their families and north_carolina justice system . his resignation comes as surprise on fourth day of_hearing_by_state_bar_association . timeline of events in case .
 thirteen prisoners since 2001 have been found through dna evidence to have been wrongfully convicted in dallas_county after serving total of 185 years behind bars . more dna exonerations could be in store under review of more than 400 other cases ordered by county dist atty craig_watkins , texas 's first black district attorney . his photo .
 kenneth_m_pollack op-ed article rebuts accusations that bush administration made up iraqi weapons threat to justify invasion . says us and allies had plenty of evidence that iraq had retained illegal weapons program . speculates that saddam_hussein may have underestimated likelihood of war and not filled chemical weapons , keeping production capability rather than large stockpiles . says that at no point before war did france , russia , or china_express doubts about baghdad 's clandestine weapons capability . emphasizes that task of rebuilding iraq is far more important in the end .
 bank_of_america is close to signing deal with developer douglas_durst to build skyscraper in midtown manhattan , which would become bank 's new_york headquarters . bank would be partner in project and occupy half of proposed $ 1 billion tower , which is expected to contain 2 million square feet of space . state is considering condemning block to make way for project . fine points of proposed deal noted .
 article on construction road crew working on $ 187 million project undertaken by new_york thruway authority aimed at easing traffic problems at notorious bottleneck at junction of interstates 287 and 87 in westchester_county . ironworkers , carpenters , pavement layers and blasters , who work for yonkers_contracting_co and who earn between $ 20 and $ 45 an hour , comment on dangers involved and cameraderie .
 murder trial of scott_peterson gets under way in san_mateo_county superior court , redwood_city . rick_distaso , lead prosecutor , delves into detail after detail in opening statement that is so exhaustive that judge_alfred_a_delucchi has to delay until june 2 the response by peterson 's lawyer mark_geragos .
 treasury sec john w snow becomes latest policy maker to try to talk up sagging economy while stopping short of major policy action against recent decline in dollar 's value . snow calls dollar 's 20 percent decline against euro over last year ` fairly modest ' . currency traders say they understand remarks to mean that bush administration , reversing policy adopted by clinton administration , does not plan to buy dollars on open market to halt decline . dollar ends down 0.6 percent against euro . euro trades at $ 1.1643 in late afternoon trading , close to four-year high , up from $ 1.1578 .
 national_basketball_association imposes its stiffest collective penalties ever , suspending indiana_pacers ' ron_artest for remaining 72 games of season , stephen_jackson for 30 games and jermaine_o'neal for 25 games for charging into stands and fighting with fans during game against detroit_pistons . suspends pistons ' ben_wallace , who shoved artest and instigated on-court tussle between teams , for six games . five other players get lesser suspensions . players union to appeal . nba comr david_stern scores players ' actions and stresses need for greater fan control and arena security , news conference . says league will redefine acceptable fan behavior and discuss curbing beer sales . says fans who do not meet new standard will be permanently barred . artest apologizes to fans . calls penalty unfair .
 american military says it killed as many as 18 supporters of rebel cleric moktada al-sadr as it demolished his baghdad headquarters during heavy nighttime firefight . says it killed another 18 of his militiamen day earlier . mounting death toll of sadr 's followers includes 41 dead in battle last week in najaf . clashes with sadr 's followers are erupting daily in cities of najaf , kufa , karbala and basra amid heightened threats to kill and kidnap foreigners in iraq . unidentified body appearing to be that of westerner is found in baghdad .
 japan 's economy grew at annual rate of 1.7 percent in second_quarter , surprisingly sharp deceleration from heady rate of 6.6 percent in first_quarter and 7.4 percent in last_quarter_of 2003 . growth slowed , in part , because of disappointingly weak consumption at home . japan is counting on rebound in spending to take up slack when , as anticipated , slower global economy takes toll on japanese exports later in year . economists and policy makers are confident that japan 's recovery remains on track , though at slower pace , and that consumer spending will again help drive growth .
 martha_stewart living omnimedia and kmart reconcile , ending lawsuit and reaching new deal to sell goods by stewart . new contract extends existing partnership on everyday brand with kmart by two years , through 2009 , and adds some new lines . kmart does not have to pay martha_stewart omnimedia certain guaranteed minimums that were at center of lawsuit filed by kmart in mid-february .
 american_association_of_orthodontists survey shows 37 percent increase in number of adult patients from 1994 to 2004 . more than one million adults in united_states currently wear braces , accounting for one of every five patients . patients who had braces as children are pleasantly surprised by advances in orthodontics that make devices more comfortable . social stigma still exists and can be worse for adults than for children .
 rep major r owens faces tough battle with yvette_d_clarke and tracy_l_boyland in democratic primary for his congressional seat in brooklyn . both women are many years younger than owens , who is 68 , and say district needs new energy . there is speculation that if owens wins nomination , he will withdraw from race to engineer succession by his son , chris_owens .
 us airways and ge capital reach settlement in which ge capital agrees to provide additional financing in exchange for small equity stake in us_airways . settlement provides for ge capital to supply $ 120 million while airline is operating under bankruptcy court protection . ge capital will receive warrants for 3.8 million shares of class a common stock , equivalent of 5 percent of company , as well as 3.8 million shares of class a preferred stock .
 united_states and iran hold rare face-to-face talks in baghdad , limiting discussion to war in iraq and ways two bitter adversaries could help improve conditions there . meeting , between american amb_ryan_c_crocker and amb hassan_kazemi_qumi of iran , produces no agreements nor promise of follow-up meeting . crocker characterizes meeting as ` businesslike , ' noting both sides stated common desire to help stabilize iraq . qumi calls meeting ` positive step ' . meeting , held in offices of prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki , occurs against backdrop of worsening conflict in iraq and deepening animosity between iran and us . each accuses other of contributing to iraq 's instability . meeting reflects significant shift in pres bush 's approach toward iran .
 on jan 26 , deadliest day in iraq for united_states , 37 service members were killed . 31 were killed when their helicoper crashed in sandstorm . 26 marines who were killed had been stationed at marine_corps_base_hawaii as part of first battalion , third regiment , third division , and sailor killed was based in nearby pearl_harbor .
 unidentified gunmen open fire on car carrying two american civilians near us military base , camp_doha , in kuwait , killing michael_rene_pouliot and severely wounding david_caraway . attack , third such incident since us began big deployment last autumn , is described by us and kuwaiti officials as terrorist ambush . photos . map . victims ' employer is san_diego software company tapestry solutions .
 federal reserve raises its benchmark interest rate for first time in four years , officially signaling that remarkable period of historically low rates is drawing to close . cost of borrowing for financial institutions on overnight loans is raised to 1.25 percent from 1 percent . fed issues statement that could be good news for pres bush . it indicates that even though it expects to keep increasing interest rates as nov elections approach , economic impact of increases is likely to be mild until at least sometime next year . because fed chairman alan_greenspan and other top officials had telegraphed their intentions months in advance , stock market takes move in stride and yields on long-term treasury securities actually decline slightly . bush and sen john_kerry react cautiously .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's proposed budget deal with state legislators would let new_york_city refinance last of its debt from 1970 's fiscal crisis , money it had been scheduled to pay off within 5 years at rate of $ 500 million a year . city would instead borrow more money to pay off bonds and state would pay back new debt , with interest , over 30 years . state would pay city $ 170 million a year to pay debt service on new bonds . fiscal experts question plan .
 profile of judge_george_greer , pinellas_county , fla , circuit court , central figure in contentious battle over whether to remove feeding tube from terry_schiavo , who is critically brain damaged and in vegetative state . case has traveled to us_supreme_court , yet it always returns to greer , who most recently ordered feeding tube to be removed based on testimony from schiavo 's husband michael . as protesters descend on pinellas_county courthouse , greer 's friends describe him as resolute but say stress is affecting him and his family .
 statistician and environmental iconoclast bjorn_lomborg convenes conference of eight economists in copenhagen to discuss best way to spend $ 50 billion to benefit humankind . team decides best ways would be to spend $ 27 billion to control spread of aids , followed by $ 12 billion for malnutrition and $ 13 billion to combat malaria . concludes spending money on global warming or government corruption would be bad investment .
 former enron executive david w delainey pleads guilty to insider trading , admitting that he sold millions of dollars in company shares at time he knew its financial performance was being manipulated improperly . delainey is highest-ranking enron official to admit participating in crimes , and his plea signals new direction in government 's criminal probe into enron 's collapse . delainey , canadian citizen , will pay about $ 8 million in penalties -- $ 3.7 million in civil case and $ 4.3 million in criminal case . also faces maximum prison sentence of 10 years and additional $ 1 million fine . agrees to cooperate in continuing investigation .
 persian gulf allies of us endorse goals of pres bush 's new iraq strategy but saudi_arabia expresses deep concern about whether shiite government can or will halt sectarian violence and protect sunnis . six foreign ministers of gulf_cooperation_council and egyptian and jordanian counterparts issue statement with sec condoleeza rice welcoming us commitment but making no promises to help . kuwait is last stop on rice 's swing to explain bush plans .
 fox network and upn announce fall shows . fox introduces four comedies and three dramas . has high expectations that it will push past nbc next season to rank first among 18 - to 49-year-old viewers . upn will finish 2002-3 television season sixth among six networks and desperately needs some hits . if none of four comedies and one drama it is introducing resonate with viewers , upn 's parent viacom might shut down network . schedules detailed .
 economists expect venezuela 's economy , which has been rocked by protests and political turmoil , will contract at least 11 percent this year . government of pres hugo_chavez blames series of national strikes and attempted coup in 2002 for country 's downfall . chavez claims country is on mend , creating jobs and improving lives . says 2004 will be year of economic growth that some say could reach 10 percent .
 artecoll , wrinkle filler that permanently removes wrinkles , has gone through five years of clinical trials in united_states and it is scheduled to go before fda for final approval . artecoll is already on market throughout europe , canada and mexico . canadian dermatologist notes that permanence can for double-edge sword , for if something goes wrong with artecoll , damage can not easily be repaired .
 file room supervisors at ins office in laguna_niguel , california , are charged with shredding as many as 90,000 documents to get rid of vexing backlog . dawn randall and leonel_salazar are accused of ordering low-level workers to destroy documents , including passports , asylum applications and citizenship papers , from february to april 2002 .
 federal investigation into connecticut gov john_g_rowland 's activities leads to antiques dealer wayne_e_pratt , who has agreed to plead guilty to misdemeanor tax charge for supplying false information about his purchase of rowland 's washington apartment . investigators are trying to determine whether pratt , who has been cooperating since january , paid rowland more for condo than it was worth . plea deal may include testifying against robert_v_matthews , whose companies have received $ 8.7 million in rent and $ 4.8 million in loans and loan guarantees during rowland 's tenure . pratt allegedly reported loss on tax return from sale , even though matthews reimbursed him in full .
 bill clinton is set to start campaigning for sen john_kerry in pennsylvania and florida just nine days before presidential election and just seven weeks after undergoing quadruple bypass surgery . his immediate task is to recharge kerry 's support among black voters in philadelphia , but his broader goal is to remind all voters that economic prosperity of 1990 's occurred under his democratic administration .
 businesspeople in britain are uneasy about plans for postwar reconstruction in iraq and prospect that british companies will be left out , despite britain 's military commitment to disarming saddam hussein . several british executives say they are surprised to learn that us agency for international development is seeking bids from american companies for $ 900 million worth of building contracts in postwar iraq . representatives from 15 british companies met with government officials in london last_week to find out where british companies are likely to stand .
 supreme court resumes long-running attempt to monitor death penalty in texas , hearing arguments in three cases . state leads nation in executions with 380 since 1976 . one case is appeal by laroyce_l_smith of his death sentence , overturned by court in 2004 but reinstated by texas court of criminal appeals . history of jurisprudence in capital punishment matters noted .
 republican leaders are divided over whether recall move that threatens to topple california 's democratic gov gray davis would give any advantage to pres bush in carrying state in 2004 presidential election . installation of a republican governor would give bush fund-raising and organizational foundation in state , but new governor would be burdened with same budgetary problems that have contributed to davis 's difficulties . several republicans close to white_house say they would like to see arnold_schwarzenegger emerge as candidate to replace davis , but bush administration is wary of appearing to be meddling in california 's affairs .
 exhibition liberte / liberty at new-york historical society was created by conceptual artist fred_wilson . includes works by 32 living artists including , faith ringgold , james_marshall , betye saar , lorenzo pace , cedric_smith , glenn_ligon , carrie_mae_weems , eli_kince , kara_walker and whitfield_lovell . show is part of 18-month program in which historical society is exploring theme of slavery in new_york and nation .
 lincoln center scales back ambitious redevelopment plans in face of economic downturn , likelihood that city can not make good on pledge of $ 240 million and decision by new_york_city opera to move downtown . project is now expected to cost $ 500 million to $ 800 million , half of what was originally projected . most solid feature of plan right now is turning west 65th street into main artery of center . avery fisher_hall is likely to be renovated rather than rebuilt . bruce_crawford , chairman , and reynold_levy , president , comment .
 arts briefing column . janet_jackson reportedly bows out of abc_television biographical film about singer and actress lena_horne after horne refuses to cooperate with production as long as jackson remains . executive producers craig_zadan and neil_meron quit in support of jackson . justin_timberlake reportedly cancels commitment to co-host with lionel_richie_abc 's motown 45 special in wake of campaign by coalition of african-american organizations protesting timberlake 's involvement .
 hitachi_global_storage_technologies files suit in federal district court in northern_california claiming that gs magic stor , with factory in guiyang , china , stole crucial elements of patented design for miniaturized version of hard drive for apple_computer 's mini ipod . apple , not named in hitachi 's suit , does not comment . some analysts say apple may be forced , for image reasons , to drop magic stor as supplier . issue for western companies doing business in china centers on intellectual property theft that has been fixture on trade agenda between us and china for years .
 russian oil tycoon mikhail_b_khodorkovsky has courted powerful establishment friends in us , at highest levels of bush administration and in congress , as well as at think tanks and philanthropies . former pres bush , adviser to carlyle_group , spoke at moscow dinner attended by khodorkovsky , prompting speculation about merger between us oil company and yukos_oil , where khodorkovsky was chief executive until he resigned in swirl of fraud charges . khodorkovsky bankrolls open russia foundation , russian philanthropy based in britain that counts bill_bradley and henry_kissinger as advisers . tycoon has also donated large sums to american organizations such as library of congress and carnegie_endowment .
 ad agencies , on behalf of marketers they represent , are agreeing to spend more than $ 9 billion to buy commercial time on broadcast networks ahead of 2003-4 primetime season . agencies committed $ 8.1 million last spring . strength of ` upfront ' market for broadcast television is reflected in many deals being made at rates 15 to 23 percent higher than those last spring , in what is known as cost per thousand viewers .
 ten republican presidential hopefuls debate in columbia , sc . sen john_mccain , rudolph_w_giuliani and mitt_romney give answers to terror-attack scenario that exposes clear differences among them . candidates manuever to emphasize their credentials on national security and as reliable conservatives . appearing before conservative audience , mccain , giuliani , romney and others answer questions about terrorism , war in iraq and other issues .
 exhibition of van gogh 's paintings and drawings of fields and nature goes on view at toledo museum of art in toledo , ohio . drawing . two exhibitions exploring mind of jules_feiffer go on view at new-hork historical society . drawing . comment on various celebrations of 100th anniversary of birth of belgian-born novelist george_simenon . photo . bronze bell that was on santa_maria , one of ships sailed by christopher_columbus and his crew to new world in 1492 , is to be auctioned at hotel ritz in madrid .
 constraint-based development is growing phenomenon in western united_states . marabou ranch in steamboat_springs , colo , is one such upscale development that preserves land while developing it . 1,300 of ranch 's 1,700 acres will be preserved in perpetuity as common property , with remaining land containing only 62 building lots of 7 to 10 acres each . at moonlight_basin in big sky , mont , buyers have legally ceded half of the land for conservation , and in pitkin_county , colo , developers must cluster houses on subdivided parcels and set aside areas for open space and moderate-income housing .
 congressional budget office report estimates that economic weakness accounts for only 6 percent of projected $ 500 billion budget shortfall . predicts faster economic growth will increase revenues next year as deficit shrinks to $ 374 billion . numbers confirm that deficits in decade ahead will stem less from lingering effects of downturn and more from rising government spending and progressively deeper tax cuts . bush administration officials do not dispute estimate but they say faster growth and spending restraints can reduce deficit in five years .
 four men working at new_york_city 's rikers_island prison jail are accused of stealing its salvador dali drawing , and their effort to hide theft by replacing drawing with crudely sketched copy is described as hopelessly amateurish . two deputy wardens , mitchell_hochhauser and benny_nuzzo , have been charged , along with two correction officers , greg_sokol and timothy_pina . original dali drawing has not been recovered .
 pentagon is looking into complaints that defense dept officials charged with building public support for troops in iraq and afghanistan might have engaged in improper fund-raising and unauthorized spending . internal memorandums suggest that pentagon officials encouraged mark_vahradian , hollywood film producer , to make private foundation , called america supports you fund , beneficiary of los_angeles fund-raiser he is planning . pentagon employees are prohibited from soliciting on behalf of private organizations . vahradian photo .
 qantas_airways will set up low-cost carrier in singapore with group of local investors that includes government agency that owns majority stake in rival singapore_airlines . qantas 's chief executive geoff_dixon says new airline is seeking approval from local authorities to start operations by end of year . qantas will invest about 50 million singapore dollars -lrb- $ 30 million -rrb- for 49.9 percent stake in new airline , while temasek_holdings , investment arm of singapore government , will own 19 percent . two local businessmen will hold remainder .
 grief overwhelms sunday services at church in chicago 's west_pullman neighborhood following casino tour bus crash 500 miles away in marion , ark , that killed 14 chicago-area travelers and injured 16 others . long overnight bus ride was twice-a-year tradition for group of friends and relatives from west_pullman . investigators are seeking cause of crash .
 ford_motor_co reports second-quarter net income of $ 1.17 billion , up from $ 417 million in 2003 period . analysts are concerned that most of profits are from lending division , while ford lost money on carmaking . toyota reports it is increasing overall production by 10 percent this year . ford executives say they expect to cut output again in third_quarter . ford predicts flat third_quarter . raises full-year profit forecast . profits graph .
 senate approves $ 2.2 trillion budget for next fiscal year , leaving intact its vote to limit pres bush 's proposed tax cut to $ 350 billion . house voted earlier this month to allow bush 's full $ 726 billion tax cut , and senate vote delays work on the actual tax legislation until both houses can reach agreement .
 sales of drug tysabri for treatment of multiple sclerosis are abruptly suspended after product is linked to fatal neurological disease called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy , or pml . drug , jointly marked by biogen_idec and elan , was approved by food_and_drug_administration three months ago under procedure designed to speed introduction of drugs for serious diseases . biogen 's chief executive james_c_mullen comments . biogen 's stock loses 43 percent of market value , plunging $ 28.63 to $ 38.65 .
 iraqis living in dearborn , mich , and across united_states consider possibility of returning to their homeland . some have already returned to do battle , and others are making arrangements to go to iraq within weeks or months as part of reconstruction effort . some three million iraqis live in exile , about 300,000 of them in us .
 hurricane ivan hits jamaica , approaching category 5 strength with winds greater than 155 mph . jamaica is under state of emergency . 15,000 stranded tourists are glad to move inland , but many people are unwilling to leave homes because of memories of looting during last powerful storm to hit jamaica . highway out of florida keys is clogged with residents heading north out of harm 's way . two of three hospitals in keys are being evacuated .
 special counsel patrick_j_fitzgerald , weighing criminal charges in cia leak case , reportedly focuses on whether white_house aides karl rove and i lewis_libby sought to conceal their actions and mislead prosecutors . charges could include perjury , obstruction of justice and making false statements if evidence shows two sought to cover up their actions concerning name of cia agent valerie_plame_wilson . case casts cloud over bush white house .
 op-ed article by lou_cannon describes thinking behind pres ronald_reagan 's decision to nominate sandra day o'connor to supreme_court . says if pres bush wants to emulate reagan , his role model , with his first supreme_court appointment , he should give greater weight to politics and intuition than ideology . says that was how reagan chose o'connor for court , against advice of some true-blue conservatives on his staff .
 mark warner , virginia 's first democratic governor in decade , is traveling across state trying to persuade republican lawmakers who dominate state legislature to support his effort to close $ 6 billion budget shortfall with plan that includes $ 1 billion tax increase over next two years . warner , former succeessful businessman , is also visiting business groups , explaining why state 's ` fiscal meltdown ' would hurt industry .
 stocks on april 15 tumble to their lowest level since 2004 presidential election , extending recent slump that has come amid fears that economic growth is slowing . sell-off is ignited by surprisingly weak earnings from ibm . it is worst single day for market in 2005 and caps worst week since aug . dow jones industrial average declines 191.24 points to 10,087.51 , nasdaq composite index falls 38.56 points to 1,908.15 , and standard_&_poor 's 500-stock index drops 19.43 points to 1,142.62 . bond market rallies as stocks fall .
 asst dist atty kenneth_chalifoux attacks tyco_international 's former chairman l dennis_kozlowski and former chief financial officer mark h swartz during opening statement at their trial in manhattan for looting $ 600 million from company . lawyers for kozlowski and swartz outline their defense for first time , saying money defendants took was authorized by board and approved by company 's auditors , pricewaterhousecoopers .
 st john 's university athletic director david_c_wegrzyn says school 's men 's basketball program will complete its season with only eight players after number of athletes are expelled or suspended because of sex scandal . queens -lrb- nyc -rrb- woman sherri_ann_urbanek-bach admitted that she falsely accused five players of raping her at pittsburgh -lrb- pa -rrb- hotel after they refused to pay for what was later determined to be consensual sex .
 taiwan 's hopes of being granted observer status in world health orgn have been blocked for years by china . because china has become target of international criticism for hiding its sars epidemic so long that it burst out across asia , there may be more of fight this year . taiwan now has sars-based argument -- that excluding it imperils world . taiwan has voluntarily reported its communicable disease figures to who , and sneers at china 's early cover-up .
 veterans of american_marine_corps return to iwo jima for ceremonies marking 60th anniversary of battle in which 6,821 marines and navy personnel were killed along with about 22,000 japanese . battle is largely ignored in japan , which , in planning events running up to 60th anniversary of japanese surrender on aug_15_, 1945 , is expected to focus on events in which its civilians were victims .
 democratic presidential candidates attend party 's florida state convention at disney_world , where they seek to stir lingering resentments about al_gore 's loss of state to george_bush in 2000 . warn against new election technologies , including internet voting machines , that they argue could produce more disputed elections . comments by sens_john_edwards , joseph_lieberman and john_kerry , rep dick_gephardt and gen wesley_k_clark .
 two statues of abraham_de_peyster , mayor of new_york_city from 1692 to 1694 , have met with certain amount of disrespect . both have been uprooted from their original sites , one in lower manhattan , other at franklin_&_marshall_college . connection between de peyster family and franklin_&_marshall discussed . statue in lower manhattan is being moved to make way for memorial garden to honor british subjects who died in world trade center .
 swiss judge jean-bernard schmid is investigating possible bribery charges involving $ 50 million contract to renovate_geneva_headquarters_of_world_intellectual_property_organization , un agency . schmid says the investigation is focusing on michael_wilson , ghanaian businessman and associate of kojo_annan , son of un sec gen kofi_annan . schmid is trying to determine if wilson had bribed khamis_suedi , a top official at wipo .
 white_house takes public position of benign aloofness to france 's vote against draft constitution for europe and continent 's political disarray , saying europe 's future is for europe to decide . policy experts debate behind the scenes how relationship between us and europe will be affected by developments , which they believe have weakened prime min tony_blair in britain , chancellor gerhard_schroder in germany and pres jacques chirac in france .
 douglas_faneuil , former broker 's assistant who is government 's main witness in trial of martha_stewart and her stockbroker peter_e_bacanovic , says he never formally conspired with stewart and bacanovic to commit crimes or conceal them from investigators . cross-examination of faneuil by stewart 's lawyer robert_g_morvillo lays foundation for argument that faneuil simply could not know or did not remember whether stewart engaged in any cover-up . faneuil does not budge from claim that he went along with cover-up of reasons for stewart 's stock trade because he felt intimidated by bacanovic . lawyers assessing faneuil 's four days of testimony say it hurt bacanovic , faneuil 's former boss , more than it hurt stewart .
 salvador ordonez , jesus_vidana and lucio_rendon , fishermen who survived nine months adrift in 29-foot boat , return to mexico , where they are greeted by some as testament to power of faith and by others with skeptical eye on their epic story of survival . say owner of boat and another fisherman died of starvation and were thrown overboard . taiwanese fishing boat rescued them near marshall_islands , nearly 5,000 miles west of san_blas , mexico . their feat of survival is one of longest on record .
 nine child welfare workers in southern new jersey said in confidential critique in 2000 that staff did not have enough foster homes or tools to evaluate foster parents . earlier molestation cases recalls that involved southern_adoption_resource_center , one of several state-run offices from which workers oversee foster families and complete adoptions for about 1,000 children yearly . that center approved adoption of four boys by raymond and vanessa_jackson , who are charged with starving them . violation of state regulations and case overloads described . union says manager dismissed for her role in jackson case supervised twenty workers . caseworker for jacksons handled 33 children .
 sen john_kerry 's choice of sen john_edwards as running mate may limit sen hillary_rodham_clinton 's options if she decides to run for president in 2008 and could set clinton and edwards on collision course for leadership of democratic party . political observers say that edwards could be attractive alternative to clinton if democratic ticket fails in november . edwards is seen as energetic and charismatic , and younger than many aging democrats who failed to grab nomination in 2004 . clinton , for her part , has been very helpful to kerry campaign , introducing him in new_york and opening up her valuable list of donors to him .
 administration officials say pres bush is immersed in every detail of war in iraq , receiving close to three hours of daily war and intelligence briefings and constant updates from national_security adviser condoleezza_rice , defense sec donald_rumsfeld and white_house chief of staff andrew card . say bush is also following coverage on television . structure of briefings and attendees noted .
 verizon communications is in tough negotiations with communications_workers_of_america , which represents 75,000 verizon workers in 12 northeastern states . seeks concessions that would help it reduce soaring health care costs , cut absenteeism and ease contractual barriers to relocating workers . union threatens walkout on aug 2 if company does not agree to strong contractual provisions to pave way o unionize nearly 20,000 workers at verizon_wireless , joint ventured owned 55 percent by verizon and 45 percent by vodafone_group_of_britain .
 gov george_pataki insists there was no way to predict magnitude of new_york 's budget deficit before election day last year , even as some democrats question his truthfulness and call for budget dir carole e stone to step down for having claimed last october that state would emerge with $ 716-million rainy day fund intact . her photo . pataki revealed five weeks after his re-election that budget had $ 2-billion hole , which has grown to $ 11.5 billion this year .
 hunt for seattle 's green river killer consumed dave_reichert for 21 years , as detective and then as sheriff of king_county , wash . he even flew to florida to ask for help from serial killer ted_bundy , who was on death row . green river case haunted reichert and his family until capture of gary_l_ridgway , who has since pleaded guilty to strangling 48 women . reichert spent three days interviewing ridgway alone . says serial killers have much in common . says they crave attention and control and have total lack of remorse .
 index funds account for 15 percent of total foreign stock fund assets , compared with only 5 percent at end of 2001 . amg data services says index funds attracted more than 21 cents of every new dollar invested in international funds in first_two_months_of_year . part of popularity of index funds is performance driven . average international equity index fund has soared 33 percent , annualized , for last_three_years_through march 31 . actively managed international stock funds returned 31.9 percent , annualized , during same period .
 pres bush , six months after republicans lost control of congress , is learning rules of game that , for six years , he seemed to have forgotten : how to make deal with democrats . white_house and congressional democrats have produced two recent surprises : major compromise on trade and fragile bipartisan accord on immigration . question is whether sudden burst of deal-making will extend from these easier targets to most intractable issue in washington : war in iraq .
 long_island may lay claim to frances_hodgson_burnett , children 's book author , as one of its own , since she lived on estate in plandome the last_17_years of her life . the secret garden was written in rose garden overlooking manhasset_bay , according to new biography by gretchen_holbrook_gerzina .
 bush administration was planning nationwide lottery to choose 50,000 medicare beneficiaries from 500,000 potentially eligible for new program to provide low-cost drugs to people with serious illnesses , but fewer than 7,000 people have applied . rep deborah price says government needs to educate doctors and patients . consumer groups say application forms are too complicated . congress has provided $ 500 million for program through end of 2005 . blue cross and blue shield of south_carolina has $ 8.7 mi llion contract to find and enroll eligible people around nation .
 new_york_city faces considerable challenge spending new money for public schools recommended by court-appointed panel : $ 5.6 billion a year in additional operating money and $ 9.2 billion for new school buildings , classrooms , libraries and other capital improvements . mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's aggressive plan for prekindergarten programs would require hiring more than 4,000 teachers and adding tens of thousands of classroom seats . proposal to spend $ 2 billion yearly over next five years on school construction could increase construction costs for entire region . old schools would also need to be retrofitted for new technologies . mayor michael_r_bloomberg is adamant that none of funds from education settlement should come from city .
 former new_york_city police comr bernard_b_kerik is under federal investigation for possible financial improprieties unrelated to crimes he pleaded guilty to last month in state court . federal probe began about year ago and has focused on foundation affiliated with city 's department of correction during kerik 's tenure as its commissioner , from 1998 to 2000 . foundation at center of federal inquiry first came under scrutiny in early 2003 .
 profile of raanan a agus , manager of one of goldman_sach_group 's largest internal hedge funds . says agus , who is owner of honda minivan , will be in line for one of richer paydays at end of year . holds that agus appears to be content to drive honda is reminder that relatively ascetic sensibility that marked agus ' predecessors , like robert_e_rubin , remains in place at goldman , even in today 's gilded era .
 interview with rashid i khalidi , mideastern scholar at columbia_university and critic of israel 's treatment of palestinians and united_states policy in middle_east . khalidi , who grew up in new_york_city as son of united_nations diplomat , hopes his latest book , resurrecting empire , correct many western and american historical misconceptions about middle_east .
 vice pres dick_cheney , in blistering critique of sen john_kerry 's record in military issues , portrays kerry as weak , inconsistent and threat to security of nation , speech , ronald_reagan presidential library , simi_valley , calif . kerry , speaking in washington , denounces pres bush 's foreign policy , which he says has left united_states ` bogged down in iraq ' and its troops overextended and ` with the target squarely on their backs ' .
 federal grand jury investigating lobbyist jack_abramoff issues subpoenas for files of former democratic_national_committee executive director brian_lunde and consulting partner george_burger . two say thay have handed over records on $ 50,000 contract they got three years ago to help win democratic support for allowing indian tribe to reopen casino in west_texas . say they got contract from michael_scanlon and did not know tiguas were working with abramoff , scanlon 's partner . subcontract went to democratic figure lottie_shackelford .
 academy award nominations are announced . chicago is leader among four movies from miramax films that together dominate nominations for 78th annual academy awards , and propel its new york-based studio into hollywood 's front ranks . chicago gets 10 nominations , as does gangs of new_york , martin_scorcese 's violent epic . the hours gets nine nominations . nominees listed .
 sotheby 's holds first of three back-to-back auctions of contemporary art . sale is disappointing . of 46 works , seven fail to find buyers . sale totals $ 27.3 million , below low estimate of $ 33.7 million . bidding is mostly tepid even though sotheby 's abandoned younger , emerging artists whose performances at auctions have been unpredictible to fashion safe sale .
 us agrees to release last four britons and one australian who have been held without charge at guantanamo_bay_naval_base for around three years . us statement says britain and australia have accepted responsibility to prevent suspects from engaging in terrorist activities in future . sec jack_straw says british police will decide whether to arrest them again .
 talks on ending north_korea 's nuclear program conclude in beijing . diplomats say us , north_korea and four other nations are due to issue statement pledging to work for nuclear-free korean_peninsula . say they left almost all major disputes about north 's nuclear program unresolved . say us , north_korea , china , russia , south_korea and japan have agreed to meet again by june .
 cingular wireless will spend hundreds of millions of dollars in coming weeks on its ad campaign on its acquisition of at & t wireless . company 's goal is to reassure its own 25.7 million customers , to welcome 21.9 million customers of at&_t_wireless and to woo tens of millions of customers of competitors . capaign is by atlanta and new_york offices of dddo worldwide .
 long island journal . i l peretz_jewish_school_of_nassau , in east_meadow , is one of 10 yiddish programs nationwide run by workmen 's circle , organization dedicated to jewish community and yiddish culture . kathleen_murray , teacher at munsey_park_elementary_school , sets up munsey young historians , before - and after-school historical society at thomas_dodge_house in port washington .
 survey of long_island 's economic problems cited exodus of young people as one of chief obstacles to economic growth . during 1990 's , number of people in 18-to-34 age bracket on long_island dropped 20 percent , five times national average . those who leave cite higher pay , greater array of social and romantic opportunities , and more flexible and youth-friendly housing in manhattan .
 mazen sinokrot , palestinian economic minister , says palestinian authority has been given about $ 70 million -- over $ 40 million released by world_bank , nearly $ 21 million from european_union and $ 10 million from norway . says even when that money arrives , palestinian authority will have only 95 percent of money needed to pay feb 's overdue salaries . says that once hamas names new government , significant amounts of international aid will dry up .
 prime min junichiro_koizumi , speaking at asia-africa summit meeting in jakarta , indonesia , offers most public apology in a decade over japan 's wartime aggression in asia , apparently in move to press pres hu jintao of china to meet him and to counter accusations that japan has been whitewashing its past militarism .
 marketers begin to ask for better proof of effectiveness of internet ads . group of large companies including kimberly-clark , colgate-palmolive and ford_motor say they will demand online publishers hire auditors to monitor ads . online companies such as google , yahoo and looksmart meet with industry groups to explain how click-based advertising works . find ways to battle click fraud . interactive advertising bureau says internet ads accounted for 4.7 percent , or $ 12.5 billion , of total $ 267 billion spent on advertising last year .
 nonprofit mozilla_foundation coordinates development of firefox , freely available , open-source internet browser designed to challenge microsoft 's dominance of field . some experts hail firefox as more innovative than microsoft 's internet explorer and less susceptible to malicious programs that routinely attack explorer . early enthusiam for preview version of firefox is big reason that internet explorer 's market share fell in last five months to 92.9 percent , first drop since 1999 .
 israel was in spiral of self-doubt before 1967 middle east war . forty years later , israel is rich and its army one of best in world , yet public mood is oddly similar . there is quiet panic about potentially nuclear iran , condemnations of the leadership as weak and corrupt , and deep concerns about ` two israels ' -- religious versus secular , jerusalem versus tel aviv and jew versus arab .
 authorization bill for proposed $ 1.4 billion expansion of jacob_k_javits_convention_center fails in new_york state legislature , even with wide support . new_york_city mayor michael_bloomberg blames cablevision , which owns madison_square_garden and opposes related west side stadium project , but it is likely that combination of issues halted proposal .
 article on 100th anniversary of execution of topsy the elephant , witnessed by some 1,500 people at luna_park in coney_island . episode will be commemorated next week when monument honoring topsy , whose electrocution by thomas_edison 's electric company was filmed , is unveiled at coney_island museum . lee deigaard , who created monument , and coney_island museum proprietor dick_zugun comment .
 judicial inspections have begun by ecuadorean authorities of sites that residents contend were polluted by texaco_petroleum_co , subsidiary of chevrontexaco . is latest wrinkle in 11-year battle over whether company should pay estimated $ 6 billion to clean up swath of ecuadorean amazon . suit was brought by 88 residents representing about 30,000 others , including 5,000 members of five amazon indigenous peoples . plaintiffs contend drinking water is contaminated . chevrontexaco denies accusation . suit centers on 11,000 acres around la joya de las sachas .
 arts briefing column : queen elizabeth ii bestows title of dame on actress joan_plowright . musicians eric_clapton and ray_davies , film director stephen_daldry and actress and wildlife conservationist virginia_mckenna are named commanders of british empire . nominating ballots and list of 254 eligible films are mailed out ot 5,803 voting members of academy of motion picture arts and sciences . new royal shakespeare society artistic director michael_boyd reportedly decrees that every understudy at stratford-on-avon will be guaranteed at least one full public performance in each production .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg proposes $ 400 property tax rebate to homeowners in new_york_city , state of city address . some fiscal experts question whether city can afford rebates , noting that faces $ 2 billion budget deficit for fiscal 2004 . say rebate may weaken city 's bargaining hand with albany and municipal unions .
 human rights chamber of bosnia and herzegovina orders bosnia 's serb republic to pay more than $ 2 million in compensation for 1995 massacre of 7,500 muslims in srebrenica . funds will be used to build memorial at graveyard where families of victims plan to bury remains once they are identified . first burial is scheduled for later this month .
 robert f kennedy jr says that alternative theory about 1975 killing of martha_moxley did not come to light for almost three decades because potential witness was worried that he would be falsely implicated if he came forward . says he does not know what to make of allegations that two young men from bronx may have committed murder for which michael_skakel , his cousin , is serving sentence of 20 years to life .
 chinese president hu_jintao spends more time meeting with officials and business people in australia than pres george w bush does . hu spends three days , addresses parliament and tours sydney 's harbor . speaks about economic collaboration as well as diplomatic and cultural relations . bush spends 21 hours and gives address in which he dwells on campaign against terrorism and gratitude to australia for sending troops to iraq .
 lawyers in brooklyn speculate on whether peter_gotti will be acquitted on racketeering charges and become next teflon don . note that gotti was acquitted when federal prosecutors last pursued him in 1991 and that his brother , john_j_gotti , became teflon don by escaping conviction three times before he was sentenced to life in prison , where he died last year . peter_gotti photo .
 bush administration has sought to deal with middle_east in bold strokes , emphasizing regime change and democracy but spurning garden-variety diplomacy of mediating conflicts between israel and its rivals . one tenet of that approach is that certain countries like iran and syria are such rogues that they should be ostracized , not engaged . pres bush and sec of state condoleezza_rice are confronting limits of course they have chosen as attacks between israel and militant groups hamas and hezbollah threaten to ignite wider conflict .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on vice pres dick_cheney 's success in creating ` parallel universe ' inside white_house in which his ` paranoid views ' on iraq are shaping real universe . cites his unsubstantiated claims that al_qaeda is responsible for major attacks in iraq . holds pres bush 's reliance on his inner circle to filter data to him leaves him open to manipulation by cheney .
 issue of now-stalled casino proposed for tribal land on reservation next to southampton_village , ny , overshadows third annual summer festival at shinnecock_nation_cultural_center and museum in shinnecock , ny . federal judge has ruled that shinnecocks , recognized by new_york state for centuries , are entitled to federal recognition . bureau of indian affairs has said it would not complete formal recognition process for another quarter_century .
 voting machines are in place in florida , thousands of lawyers are poised , absentee ballot counts are under way and up to two million of state 's 10.3 million voters have already cast ballots , all amid signs that , absent landslide , election day and aftermath will be just as messy as in 2000 . photo . voting rights group sues palm_beach_county supervisor theresa_lepore after she bans reporters from talking with voters outside polling places . close race , partisan rancor and new , complex machinery create many imponderables .
 national council of resistance , iranian opposition group that is political front for people 's mujahedeen , charges iran bought blueprints for nuclear bomb and obtained weapons-grade uranium on black market , news conferences , paris and vienna . charges iran is still secretly enriching uranium at tehran site despite accord with france , germany and britain to suspend such activities . accord commits european_union to combat people 's mujahedeen as terrorist group . independent nuclear experts are divided about whether claims could be true .
 labor department inspector general decides to investigate its agreement to give wal-mart stores 15-days ` notice before investigating any stores facing complaints of child labor violations . lawmakers and child advocacy groups criticized department 's settlement of child labor complaints against 24 wal-mart stores in connecticut , new_hampshire and arkansas . agreement calls for wal-mart to pay $ 135,540 to settle complaints involving 85 youths .
 eagle island state park may one day get gravel mine under recent compromise between idaho legislature and gov dirk_kempthorne , pres bush 's nominee to be secretary of interior . kempthorne 's aides defend gravel mining as way to raise money for park improvements without causing undue environmental harm . others say kempthorne 's critics in us_senate will use issue at his confirmation hearing to raise questions about his environmental priorities .
 article on unsuccessful efforts to pass legislation in new jersey that would provide access to clean syringes for illegal drug users . health department reports there are currently 61,698 people infected with hiv virus in state and 45,256 people with full-blown aids . state sen joseph_vitale , democrat from woodbridge who sponsored unsuccessful bill , says new jersey is dancing on edge of public health disaster .
 cadillac , unit of general_motors , and dodge unit of daimlerchrysler unveil new cars at geneva motor show they they hope will lead fresh push into european market . daimlerchrysler is reintroducing dodge name that has been absent from europe for two decades . general motors is trying to elbow its way into luxury market with cadillac .
 profile of and interview with turkish writer orhan_pamuk , 51 , who grew up in wealthy istanbul family and has lived in switzerland and new_york . pamuk comments on his 1998 novel , my name is red , published in english in 2001 , about impact of european renaissance painting on 16th-century islamic miniaturist illustrators , for which he has won international impac dublin literary award .
 boston scientific provides new evidence in its quarterly earnings report that it leads market of drug-coated stents . company 's sales of stents , led by taxus stent , reached $ 686 million , more than five times its stent sales for quarter_year ago . taxus stent controls 70 percent of market . growing evidence shows that while taxus is easier to insert , johnson_&_johnson 's cypher , only other drug-coated-stent approved for sale in us , may produce better results for most patients . boston scientific reports quarterly net income doubled to $ 258 million from year ago , and revenues climbed 69 percent , to $ 1.48 billion .
 teck cominco makes unsolicited offer of 17.8 billion canadian dollars for inco , putting inco 's attempt to acquire canadian nickel mining rival falconbridge in doubt . teck cominco 's offer also lifts shares of xstrata , major mining company based in switzerland that holds about 20 percent of falconbridge 's shares and may be another suitor .
 zingerman 's delicatessen in ann_arbor , mich , has gone beyond being simply deli to being gourmet enterprise with sales of more than $ 30 million expected this year . deli is known across us thanks to its catalog and mail-order business . business flourished because zingerman 's co-founder paul_saginaw demanded that his business partner ari_weinzweig to break away from his routine of running deli , generating about $ 6 million in sales about 15_years_ago , to brainstorm .
 frank rich column explores impact of vietnam war on presidential campaign : says both candidates are trying to change focus , pres bush to avoid quagmire of analogies to iraq , and sen john_kerry to avoid referendum on his own vietnam history . notes documentary going upriver : the long war of john_kerry will open in us on oct 1 and is likely to provide fodder for anti-kerry forces . warns that vietnam will continue to resonate with voters and reflect current situation in iraq .
 floyd norris market place column on uncertain status of power in europe , where european commission can issue directives that are often at mercy of national governments to interpret and enforce . european finance ministers have reached agreement that gives national governments more time to reduce deficits and more discretion to ignore certain spending in calculating them . challenge to authority of european institutions , particularly european_union , may be brewing as abn_amro_of_netherlands considers buying banca_antonveneta_of_italy and banco_bilbao_vizcaya_argentaria of spain considers acquiring italy 's banca_nazionale_del_lavoro .
 suggestions from 11 prominent men and women working in different fields for technology or gadgets they want to see invented . ideas discussed . suggestions are offered by electronic_frontier_foundation co-founder and vice chairman john_perry_barlow , cartoonist scott_adams , tennis player martina_navratilova , television football commentator cris_collingsworth , lucent_technologies chairwoman and chief executive patricia_f_russo , federal_communications_commission chairman michael_k_powell , real estate developer donald_j_trump , musician moby , actress-comedian margaret_cho , novelist william_gibson and sun_microsystems co-founder bill joy . drawings .
 general_motors ' stock falls to its lowest level in more than decade after company says it expects to post loss of nearly $ 1 billion for last six months . gm has gone from being healthiest of big three automakers in detroit to weakest in last_three_years , primarily because it is not selling enough cars at home . its pontiac , buick and saturn_brands are household names but they lack appeal . its wave of new models has not helped stem its plummeting sales , even with most generous rebates and low-rate financing deals . increasing health care costs are heavy burden for gm , which is america 's largest private health care provider . rising interest rates and weakening credit ratings are expected to cool its lending business , general_motors_acceptance_corp . foreign competitors like toyota and nissan are far more profitable .
 assemblyman scott_stringer criticizes new_york_city housing authority for keeping 5,300 apartments vacant , or 3 percent of inventory . says nearly 3,500 apartments have been vacant for over one year , 900 for over five years and 88 from more than nine years . authority says numbers are not nearly as bad as stringer might presume . jousting over vacancies comes at time city officials and housing groups are desperate to create as much housing for low - and moderate-income families as possible in city with record homelessness and shortage of housing or land .
 new_york state atty gen eliot_spitzer 's probe of fees that insurance companies pay insurance brokers is advancing . several major insurance companies have received subpoenas from spitzer 's office , in addition to four brokers that reported last_month that they were under investigation -- marsh_&_mclennan_cos , aon , willis group holdings and kaye_insurance_associates . chubb and hartford_financial_services group say they have received subpoenas . american international group declines comment . investigation is looking into potential conflicts of interest among brokers , whose role is to arrange best possible coverage for corporate clients at best possible price -lrb- market place column -rrb- .
 us troops seize and then release eldest son of abdul_aziz_al-hakim , perhaps most powerful shiite political leader in iraq , after he crosses border from iran . detention heightens tensions with one of iraq 's most formidable political movements just as planned us troop buildup is beginning in baghdad to try to rescue capital from grip of shiite militias and sunni insurgents . prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki reportedly intervened to help release the son , amar_abdul_aziz_al-hakim .
 managed care companies that pulled out of areas across country few years ago are returning now that federal medicare reimbursement rates have gone up . bush administration 's plan caled for $ 46 billion to be pumped into these health insurance programs over next 10 years . number of medicare beneficiaries enrolling in managed care plans has started to rise in hernando_county , fla . humana_inc 's chief executive michael_mccallister comments .
 article on document translation service companies based in westchester_county , ny . dml solutions , in ardsley , run by daniel_zhu and helen_di , and precise translations , company in buchanan owned by gloria_mattia and her daughter melissa , report increase in business over past few years . some translation businesses , including japan american learning center in scarsdale , have witnessed downturn in business . agencies charge different rates , from 30 cents to 50 cents per word or $ 100 to $ 150 per hour , depending on language or dialect .
 oracle_corp president safra a catz testifies that peoplesoft initiated talks about possible merger a year before oracle made hostile bid for company . says craig_conway , chief executive of peoplesoft , personally called lawrence_j_ellison , oracle 's chief executive , in june 2002 to discuss possibility of merger of companies so that they could better compete against sap and siebel_systems_inc . catz photo .
 alan riding article on outdoor art exhibition called the snow show , organized by lance_fung , which features collaborations of 17 teams of architects and artists , in towns of kemi and rovaniemi , finland . actual building of works was done by ice engineer sappo makinen , helped by local builders and 120 international student volunteers . fung plans new snow show next year in switzerland and has been promised space at 2006 winter olympics in torino , italy . fung comments .
 new_york_city unveils plan to borrow $ 3.7 billion to tranform manhattan 's far west side with extended subway line , parks and deck over railyard where office buildings and cultural institution could be built . charles_a_gargano , chairman of javits_convention_center_development_corp , will announce expansion plan linked to proposed new_york jets stadium . deputy mayor daniel_doctoroff explains underwriting and construction proposals .
 securities and exchange commission repeats its demands that accounting firm ernst_&_young_be banned from accepting new auditing clients for six months because it had improper business relationship with software firm peoplesoft from 1994 to 1999 . ernst_&_young spokesman says firm and sec have presented their positions in case and it is time to leave matter to judicial process .
 article on legal victory won by commack_kosher_meats_&_caterers in commack , ny . us supreme_court refused to hear appeal on february 10 , nearly 10 years after store was inspected and fined $ 11,100 for selling mislabeled poultry , effectively deciding that new_york state law excessively entangles religion and state and impermissibly advances orthodox judaism .
 allen barra chronicle column reviews some books about baseball : baseball forever : reflections on 60 years in the game by ralph_kiner and danny_peary . the zen of zim : baseball , beanballs , and bosses by don_zimmer and bill_madden . ya got ta believe ! my roller-coaster life as a screwball pitcher and part-time father , and my hope-filled fight against brain cancer by tug mcgraw and don_yaeger . babe ruth : launching the legend by jim_reisler . hank_aaron and the home run that changed america by tom_stanton . the meaning of ichiro : the new wave from japan and the transformation of our national pastime by robert_whiting . godzilla takes the bronx : the inside story of hideki_matsui by jerry_beach .
 eve , rapper and singer who is march cover girl for elle_girl , changes her appearance . emerson_hart , front man for band tonic , comments on grammy nomination in best rock album category . actor jerry_orbach , who appeared in chicago when it was broadway show in 1975 , playing role of fast-talking lawyer , comments on richard_gere 's performance in same role in movie chicago .
 australian investors acquired $ 2.4 billion worth of real estate in us in 2003 , more than foreign investors from any country except germany . australian investment , while amounting to nly fraction of $ 114 billion worth of american real estate that changed hands last year , represents threefold increase from 2002 and was substantially larger than direct investment from all other countries combined if germany and middle_eastern countries are excluded . german investors bought $ 3.6 billion in american property last year , down from $ 4.4 billion in 2002 . some specific acquisitions noted .
 wendy moonan antiques column . glass sales by david_rago , christie 's new_york and doyle_new_york will test strength of demand for american and european art glass from turn of century . christie 's and buyers of chippendale style bonnet desk disagree over age of piece , which sold in december for $ 240,000 .
 military autopsy shows that pfc matthew_scarano , army recruit who died while under medical treatment at fort_sill , in lawton , okla , succumbed to accidental overdose of powerful narcotic painkiller fentanyl , apparently having eaten a skin patch with three-day dosage of drug . fellow soldier says he warned army that scarano had been ingesting fentanyl from skin patch . death is second drug fatality in two years in physical training and rehabilitation program , which is intended to treat new recruits who are injured in basic training .
 julio_gonzalez and pedro_nevarez catch 3-year-old timothy_addo as he falls from fourth-floor fire escape in bronx . men are second and third new yorkers to become heroes in city in 2007 . child 's babysitter carol_baldwin says she was only in bathroom for second . child escapes with only small bump on head .
 friends of robert_a_durst , new_york real estate heir , say he may be able to post bail in galveston , tex , after oct_18 , one week into his trial on charges related to death of morris_black , for which he was found not guilty of murder . those pending charges include bail jumping and evidence tampeering .
 charles_isherwood critic 's notebook column on 29th annual humana festival of new american plays at actors theater of louisville . reviews kia_corthron 's moot the messenger , allison_moore 's hazard county , john_belluso 's a nervous smile , adam_rock 's the shaker chair , kathleen_tolan 's memory house and carlyle_brown 's pure confidence .
 graduate students at columbia_university 's school of the arts protest rising cost of tuition , which is expected to reach $ 39,144 a year in next three years , up from $ 31,240 for 2003-2004 academic year . many at school , which has programs in visual arts , acting , writing and filmmaking , worry about losing best applicants to lower-priced schools . school is largely self-supporting and depends heavily on tuition . alumni contributions totaled only $ 22,000 in 2003 .
 russian pres vladimir_putin starts two-day trip to india . fourth visit as president is seen as testament to enduring ties between two nations . links are revived by prospering india 's strategic demands of energy and arms , in which russia stands to be important partner . india wants expanded access to investment in russia 's oil reserves and will propose joint venture to explore for oil in siberia . russia is india 's biggest defense partner .
 jawed karim , one of founders of youtube who shunned job at company to focus on getting his master 's degree at stanford , is expected to gain fortune from google 's acquisition of youtube for $ 1.65 billion . karim declines to say how much he will make when google 's purchase of youtube is completed . says only that he is one of company 's largest individual shareholders , though he owns less of company that his partners chad_hurley and steven_chen , whose stakes in company are likely to be worth hundreds of millions of dollars .
 jack_r_meyer , investment manager who helped propel harvard_university 's endowment into league of its own , says he is leaving to start his own firm , emboldening critics who have complained that he doled out pay that was high even by wall street standards . took over $ 5 billion endowment at university in 1990 and parlayed it into $ 23 billion . departure may sound death knell for harvard 's unorthodox investment management model , under which meyer has effectively run a hedge fund , harvard_management_co , which is also nonprofit organization .
 bob_dylan was never popular when he was growing up in hibbing , minn . many of hibbing 's 17,000 residents still have no use for man who , having outgrown his boyhood awkwardness of 1950 's and changed his name from zimmerman , became one of most influential songwriters of 20th century . others think hibbing should begin to honor him , and even capitalize on his legacy .
 group of real estate developers 233 broadway owners is creating what will be financial district 's first office tower with country_club 's exclusivity , and perhaps its extraordinary membership fees , in woolworth building . group , led by developers steven_c_witkoff and ruben_schron , plans to create ` office_club ' on top 25 floors of building . intent is to attract affluent tenants . randolph_h_gerner , principal at gerner_kronick_&_valcarcel , architecture firm designing woolworth renovation , comments .
 new_york_city files suit in state_supreme_court in albany asking court to order richard_a_curreri , director of conciliation for public_employment_relations_board , to name chairman for arbitration panel to break impasse with patrolmen 's benevolent association over contract . city wants curreri to name arnold_m_zack , who is favored by city and is former president of national_academy_of_arbitrators .
 article on meyer and marilyn_ackerman and son , brian , of harrison , ny , all of whom are immersed in film industry . meyer ackerman pioneered showing of foreign and art films in 1950 's and 1960 's at network of theaters in new_york metropolitan area and still caters to serious filmgoers at scarsdale fine arts cinema , which he built and has co-owned since 1971 . marilyn founded and co-directs 25-year-old westchester_cinema_club . brian is program director of nonprofit jacob_burns film center in pleasantville .
 dispute over auditing of bad loans sold to mexican govt by four of mexico 's leading retail banks after 1995 banking crisis is reopening one of murkiest chapters in country 's recent financial history . it is also creating political headache for bankers , who want to sweep remnants of debacle from their balance sheets . banks are banamex unit of citigroup , bbva_bancomer , banorte and hsbc_holdings .
 blurry line between gossip and public relations is illustrated by new_york_post 's page six , where richard_johnson has been been editor for two decades . johnson 's protege jared_paul_stern is accused of $ 220,000 shakedown of billionaire ronald w burkle . johnson himself has flown first class and stayed in luxury hotels paid for by companies he covers . he has also had business dealings with them , as has his new wife , sessa_von_richthofen . post 's editor-in-chief col allan does believe conflicts have affected johnson 's coverage of subjects .
 andrew_pollack column on signs that biotechnology industry is getting closer to breaking even . says industry giants genentech and amgen and about four dozen smaller companies are now profitable . notes overall industry has been kept afloat by willingness of investors to finance_research and development . says food_and_drug_administration approved 18 novel biotech drugs in 2005 , compared with only 11 from big conventional drug makers , but biotechnology companies have not yet figured out how to avoid pitfalls in drug development .
 new jersey has 10 wine schools that are not attached to vineyards and that take students from grapes to glass in about 10 months . largest is bacchus school of wine , first independent wine school in state and largest , with four schools and plans to open branch on staten_island . owners of schools say hobby is popular among italian-americans , especially those with memories of ` basement wine ' on grandparents ' tables .
 playwright eve ensler and former companion ariel_orr_jordan are suing each other over ownership of three apartments in w 16th st co-op building . james h herbert_ii , ceo of first republic_bank , has purchased two penthouses at trump_parc_east for $ 13 million , with intention of tearing both down and creating one luxury apartment , in partnership with donald_trump .
 students at southampton_college and other schools on east end of long_island find off-season housing bargains for as low as $ 300 monthly for room and use of facilities in luxurious homes that rent for $ 50,000 to $ 70,000 for summer season . year-round residents of southampton complain of trash , noise and weekend crowds , and some say town 's rental code is being violated . landlords concede that college crowds cause more damage than their summer people , but are happy for any income on properties during winter .
 plan by which israel will return bodies of 59 men killed during long occupation is hailed in southern lebanon . hezbollah will hand over four israelis , or their bodies , in exchange for 430 live prisoners and 59 bodies . photo of guerrilla leader mustafa_dirani . fighters are heroes in region but israeli withdrawal deprived hezbollah of immediate mission and iraq war has increased pressure on sponsors syria and iran , as well as depriving terrorist group of tidy rallying cry in middle_east . hezbollah , pioneer of suicide bombings , also runs social services and has 12 seats in lebanese parliament , toehold for political role .
 germans commemorate uprising of june 17_, 1953 , in which hundreds of thousands of workers took to streets in 272 east german towns and cities , demanding both democracy and better conditions for themselves . soviet troops and east german police put down demonstrations and arrested many of movement 's leaders . 25 to 300 people were killed . people in bitterfeld recall uprising , first of its kind in eastern_europe .
 william_safire op-ed column holds foot-dragging united_nations bureaucracy frustrates independent probe of its scandalous oil-for-food program during saddam_hussein 's reign in iraq with inadequate funding for probe committee headed by paul_volcker . urges some lawful authority to subpoena evidence stored by bnp paribas in new jersey that shows much of money for desperately needed food and medicine was spent on construction equipment , limousines and perfume .
 e-mail messages between office of white_house counsel harriet_miers and atty gen alberto_gonzales 's chief of staff d kyle_sampson reveal how plan to dismiss us attorneys was hatched by miers in early 2005 and led to summary dismissal of seven prosectors in december 2006 . eighth was forced out earlier . documents reveal political calculations after miers first proposed dismissing all 93 prosecutors . sampson later ranked those showing ` loyalty ' to bush and others on ` strikeout ' list . complaints about several of them from republican lawmakers quoted . photo of rep john_conyers . chronology of plan .
 military officials believed that mohamed al-kahtani attempted to be hijacker in sept_11_, 2001 attacks . he was captured in afghanistan and imprisoned at us naval base at guantanamo_bay , cuba , in early 2003 . account of his harsh treatment , given to new_york times by military intelligence officials and interrogators , is latest of several developments that have damaged military 's public version of how detention and interrogation center at guantanamo operated .
 questions are being raised about whether excessive severance packages were paid to two senior executives who recently resigned from j paul_getty trust . payments to deborah_gribbon of $ 3 million and jill_munitz of $ 250,000 came to light after resignation of trust president barry_munitz . california attorney general 's office is conducting wide-ranging investigation .
 librarian of congress_james_h_billington is first notable american official to visit iran in 18 years . library says purpose of visit is ` purely cultural ' and that he is traveling at invitation of director of national_library of iran . bush administration official terms trip ` people-to-people outreach ' that falls short of supporting government of iran . says bililngton was briefed by state_dept in advance of his trip .
 fighting persists despite new middle east peace plan . israeli army commander in cramped armored personnel carrier orders his men on nighttime charge into beit_hanun , one of gaza_strip 's most combustible neighborhoods . israel says hamas uses it for rocket attacks . commander is not surprised when shooting erupts . in several sharp exchanges of fire , five palestinians are killed , including two militants and three youths . commander discusses often-conflicting demands of tracking down militants and avoiding civilian casualties .
 bob_herbert op-ed column scores bush administration for extraordinary rendition policy , citing example of syrian-born canadian maher_arar , who was seized in new_york_airport in 2002 and sent to syria as terror suspect . arar says he was tortured while imprisoned for 10 months before being released without charges . his lawsuit against us government was dismissed last week by judge_david_trager .
 survivors of bronx fire that left nine children and one adult dead are resettled and carrying on . they are in new home , spacious apartment one mile from scene of blaze that was one of deadliest residential fires in new_york_city history . fire , in early march , touched off outpouring of support for extended immigrant family from mali , including benefit concerts and thousands of dollars in donations raised by various groups and businesses throughout city . photos . diagram .
 article on debate over fate of swimming pool at mccarren_park in greenpoint , brooklyn , which was built in 1936 and closed in 1983 . for years , pool has been battleground between residents who want it demolished and others who want it restored . parks department estimates cost of restoring pool at upward of $ 40 million .
 op-ed article by walter_isaacson says conflict between united_states and its oldest ally , france , over war in iraq is not first rift between two countries . says struggle among american diplomats over best way to deal with ally known more for its pride than its fortitude dates back 225 years , to time when john_adams and benjamin_franklin served uneasily together in paris . says adams , cold realist , antagonized french , while franklin realized that key to relationship was pride , that france was , above all , proud nation that enjoys flattery and fealty . says franklin found that appearance of humility was just as useful as real thing . says current leaders in washington should use that approach .
 appearances by former presidents george h w bush and bill_clinton , often allies for various causes , at separate fund-raisers in new jersey underscore significance of increasingly contentious race for united_states_senate . bush spoke for republican nominee , state sen thomas_h_kean jr at event in bridgewater , and clinton attended event in elizabeth for sen robert_menendez .
 disclosure that stock trader michael_j_zimmerman at sac capital advisors , hedge fund managed by steven_a_cohen , is being investigated by securities regulators for possible insider trading may put cohen and sac under spotlight that by all accounts he would rather avoid . cohen 's firm has become one of biggest traders on wall street , paying about $ 150 million in commissions to brokerage firms each year .
 streetscapes column on history of beresford apartment building on central park west between 81st and 82nd streets . designed in 1928 , distinctive building offers three unusual apartments , all multilevel residences rising to areas underneath beresford 's three landmark towers . north tower , temporarily shrouded in construction netting , appears to have disappeared , changing distinct look of building . owners of three tower apartments are david and helen_gurley_brown , john_mcenroe and lew_frankfort .
 washington monthly editor paul_glastris op-ed article contends that sen john_kerry will lose election unless he turns issue of national security to his advantage . maintains that kerry must offer forthright defense of his vote in 2002 to authorize use of force in iraq . holds that kerry must offer better plans for iraq and for fighting al qaeda than pres bush 's .
 labor department reports loss of 308,000 jobs in february , most since two_months_after september 11 terrorist attacks . unemployment rate nudges up to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent in january . treasury secretary john snow calls figures disappointing but says they show need for quick action on pres bush 's tax cut plan . democratic repr richard_gephardt says bush 's economic plan has left country unprepared for future and without strategy to spur meaningful economic growth . senate minority leader tom_daschle accuses bush of turning us economy into ` job-destroying machine ' .
 tens of thousands of protesters around world take to streets to condemn united states-led war in iraq . express anger at television images of baghdad ablaze . protests in europe draw in church leaders and politicians , schoolchildren and labor leaders . pope john_paul_ii urges peace . in spain , protesters denounce war and their government 's unwavering support for military operation in iraq . in tokyo , demonstrators hold up photos of wounded iraqi children in 1991 persian gulf war .
 census bureau survey of geographic mobility estimates that about 121,000 americans 75 and older left south from 2000 to 2005 , and 87,000 arrived . it is first time since depression that more elderly left south than moved there . reversal seems driven in part by older people who retired to south in their 60s , but decided to return home to children and grandchildren in northeast , midwest and west after losing spouses or becoming less mobile .
 us steel industry , under auspices of american_iron_and_steel_institute , has earmarked $ 1.2 million this year and $ 2.1 million in 2007 for advertising campaign to reposition steel-making as vibrant and crucial part of american economy . campaign is running exclusively in washington and will not use any television spots . radio ads will run on four district of columbia_stations and banner ads will run on web sites . blue worldwide is handling ad campaign .
 third and final presidential debate , despite competition from two baseball playoff games , draws more than 51 million viewers -- - more than watchd any of presidential debates in 2000 or 1996 . through three debates , over four and half hours of exchanges , pres bush and sen john_kerry had chance that candidates say they long for : to reach an attentive public audience directly on matters of substance , on well-being and war .
 goldman sachs retail composite index shows january same-store sales for specialty apparel and accessories rose 2.3 percent . national retail federation says its view is guarded about 2005 . group 's chief economist , rosalind_wells , predicts slowdown in early part of year that will affect whole year , ` forecasting mild 3.5 percent growth in retail sales for year , compared to robust 6.7 percent gain in 2004 . january sales for specific retailers noted .
 bush administration will not try to assess whether troop increase in iraq is producing signs of political progress or greater security until september , and many of pres bush 's top advisers anticipate that any gains by then will be limited . senior administration officials say that white_house is gradually scaling back its expectations for government of pres nuri_kamal_al-maliki . say that timetables being discussed suggest that white_house may maintain increased numbers of us troops in iraq well into 2008 .
 teenagers robbie and brittany_bergquist of norwell , mass , run nonprofit charity , cell phones for soldiers , that has raised $ 1 million for phone cards for us troops overseas . three-year-old recycling network spans more than 4,000 drop-off sites located in every state and three foreign nations , and yields some 20,000 cellphones monthly , which fetch about $ 5 each from recycling firm . almost 400,000 cards have shipped .
 reaction to sony 's announcement that it will delay next playstation console until november meets with mixed reaction . shares of big_american_game_publishers rise 2 percent to around 5 percent while both consumers and game experts say delay could prompt some gamers waiting for playstation 3 to switch to rival xbox 360 from microsoft .
 long island journal column . lori_ketcham , licensed wildlife rehabilitator in middle_island , comments on caring for and then releasing injured or orphaned deer . manisha_dadarkar and veenu_taneja won traditional hindu wedding in radio contest sponsored by scotto_brothers , owners_of_chateau_briand caterers in westbury . taneja 's mother , usha , was mugged day before their august 21 wedding . wedding was canceled , usha_taneja died three_days_later and couple married in quiet civil ceremony on september 3 .
 william m bulger testifies publicly for first time about his missing brother , accusing fbi of wanting to kill him and questioning sincerity of long search for him . james -lrb- whitey -rrb- bulger is longtime fbi informant who disappeared in 1995 after being indicted on racketeering and murder charges . william_bulger , president of university_of_massachusetts and powerful figure in state , is alternately defiant , angry and evasive at hearing_of_house_government_reform_committee , which is investigating how fbi agents in boston became corrupted by their use of gangsters as informers . bulger , testifying under immunity , suggests conspiracy by fbi and boston_globe to ruin him and brother .
 eduardo perez_motta , mexico 's new antitrust chief , is charged with curbing monopolies in an economy where one or two dominant companies are norm in many industries -- among them aviation , cement , energy , tele-communications and television broadcasting . his first task will be to lobby congress to rewrite mexico 's competition law .
 profile of architect david_m_childs of skidmore , owings_&_merrill , one of new_york 's most powerful architects . favored for years by developers because of his willingness to continually rework designs to meet client needs , childs now finds latest project , new_york_city 's freedom tower , dissatisfying as constant requests for design changes take him further away from chance to be recognized for his own creative vision .
 writers_guild_of_america , whose 8,000 members have been working without a contract for six months , are about to conclude mostly mail-in election to choose president and 8 of 16 board members . presidential choices are reformer eric_hughes , who wants to fire group 's paid executives and is assisting legal assault on guild 's high-stakes system for setting film and television credits disputes , and incumbent daniel_petrie jr , who believes membership is looking for peace after losing president victoria_riskin and her successor , charles_holland , this year .
 toyota_city , japan , and its 350,000 residents see troubled times ahead as toyota_motor shifts operations overseas . toyota motor earned more than america 's big three automakers combined last year , but job market in toyota city peaked decade ago , and workers can no longer take raises and bonuses for granted . local business leaders are looking to attractg new commerce .
 one of biggest challenges for chinese leaders lies in when and how to rein in country 's soaring stock market and whom to pick as next governor of central bank . people 's bank_of_china_governor_zhou_xiaochuan faces knotty question of what to do about speculative mania that has drawn millions of people with limited investing experience into betting their savings on stock market . zhou says chinese market is ` clearly unsustainable ' and could undergo ` dramatic contraction ' . stocks fall 0.47 percent in shanghai and 0.6 percent in shenzhen after setting records previous three days . cash is pouring into stock market partly because money is pouring into china in general .
 pres bush moves quickly to respond to questions about his service in texas_air_national_guard by releasing hundreds of pages of records . questions arose ten years ago and continued in presidential election campaign of 2000 , but gained new urgency when democratic_national_committee_chmn_terry_mcauliffe suggested charge that bush was awol , drawing contrast to democratic challenger sen john_kerry , who served in navy in vietnam .
 hancock , new_york , asseses damage caused by major flooding of delaware_river and tributaries . gov george_e_pataki makes $ 35 million available to area and calls for pres bush to make disaster declaration . governors jon s corzine of new jersey and edward_g_rendell of pennsylvania also hope for federal assistance . roads and homes in hancock receive extensive damage .
 charles_cullen , former nurse , pleads guilty to killing 13 patients at somerset_medical_center in somerville , nj , and one patient at easton_hospital in easton , pa . agrees to 13 life sentences in prison and to help prosecutors identify as many as 40 patients he killed over many years , task prosecutors say would be impossible without his help . says used his nursing and medical knowledge to choose patients and medications unlikly to arouse suspicion . admits using even more drugs than prosecutors were aware of .
 episode last month in norwalk , conn , in which two bicycle riders were injured , one seriously , exposed intricacies and technological challenges facing new_york metropolitan region 's enhanced 911 system as well as flaws in suffolk_county 's response to out-of-state 911 calls . 911 cell phone call made by fellow bicyclist adrienne_pincus was sent first to greenlawn , ny , then to yaphank , where authorities suggested she dial ` 0 ' to reach operator to connect her to 911 . suffolk authorities have since announced new policy in which cellphone calls from connecticut would be transferred to connecticut_state_police .
 sen tom_daschle of south_dakota is facing challenge from former rep john_thune , close ally of pres bush . daschle feels confident of re-election as he has been champion state 's interests in congress , but many anticipate hard fight with thune , who is very popular in state . daschle has been senate democratic minority leader since 1994 .
 legislation is considered that would make new_york state first in nation to collect dna samples from everyone convicted of felonies or misdemeanors . governor george_e_pataki and new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg both support legislation . bill has been stuck in democratic-led assembly for seven years but legislators say sticking points are now being addressed and bill 's passage is likely . new_york_city police commissioner raymond_w_kelly states dna evidence is crucial in solving murders . critics of bill raise concerns about mishandling of dna samples collected from those not convicted of crimes .
 nasd and securities_and_exchange_commission are investigating whether fidelity investments brokers have inappropriately showered mutual fund employees with gifts in effort to win lucrative commissions from funds ' trading business . two fidelity traders appear frequently on jefferies_&_co broker kevin_quinn 's travel and expense reports , and fidelity has begun internal probe of entire trading unit . fidelity traders in at least two instances reimbursed quinn for some part of expenses incurred while quinn had already charged jefferies for same expenses .
 textile mill that was shut down three years ago in kannapolis , nc , throwing 4,800 people out of work , casts shadow over heated race for congress in once booming industrial enclave . larry_kissell , democratic candidate , has organized his campaign around threat of foreign competition and rep robin_hayes 's tiebreaking vote last year for trade accord with central_america . hayes has withstood challenges on trade issue in past , but kissell is making at least some headway in tapping voter anxiety about trade .
 forest city ratner 's proposed atlantic yards project , vast residential , commercial and arena development in brooklyn , may be first large-scale urban real estate venture in new_york_city where opposition is most strident on internet blogs that are dedicated to project and its negative impact on community . forest city ratner recently set up its own web site to list project 's benefits to brooklyn residents .
 ambitious new effort by fbi to recruit foreigners in united_states and use them as spies overseas creates friction with cia , which views move as encroachment on agency 's traditional primacy in intelligence gathering and beyond fbi 's expertise . rift reflects fundamental changes sweeping through intelligence agencies as they face increasing pressures to improve capabilities following sept 11 attacks . both agencies are concerned with lack of information sharing . cia director porter_goss and fbi director robert_nueller_iii are trying to define relationship , but final agreement is not expected until bush administration appoints director of national intelligence .
 chicago cubs ' upcoming games will be cruel reminder of everything team has not accomplished over the years . they will be host to boston red sox for first time since 1918 world series , which boston won , 4-2 , then will go to yankee stadium for their first visit there since they were swept in 1938 world series .
 russian special forces kill chechen separatist leader aslan_maskhadov in bunker beneath house in village of tolstoy-yurt , 12 miles from grozny . photos . map . raid is rare russian victory in bloody war , although effect on those who launch terrorist attacks is unclear since maskhadov appeared to have lost control over rebel commander shamil_basayev . pres vladimir_putin appears on television with security chief nikolai_p_patrushev , who describes raid . mashkadov was soviet army colonel who resigned to lead chechen forces in 1990 's and was elected president in 1997 .
 article on innovative digital organ that has been installed by marshall_&_ogletree in manhattan 's historic trinity_church . church hopes to some day rebuild or replace old aeolian skinner pipe organ , which was all but destroyed in terrorist attacks and has since been dismantled . digital instrument will make its public debut on september 11 with owen_burdick conducting and dean_billmeyer as organist .
 home insurers are shifting business away from coastal areas and cutting rates in midwest and west as they expect increasing amount of hurricanes over next decade . allstate cut rates in michigan by average of 16.5 percent in last_six_months and 14.8 percent in montana . critics say insurance companies are placing short-term profits ahead of long-term stability .
 labor department statistics show economy has fallen into worst hiring slump in almost 20 years . indicate decline has become even worse than at comparable point in so-called jobless recovery of early 1990 's . business executives are unsure when it will end . statistics show economy has lost more than 2 million jobs , drop of 1.5 percent , since start of recession in march 2001 and compared with decline of 1.3 percent at same point in business cycle decade ago . show approximately one million people appear to have left labor force since summer 2002 , neither working nor looking for job . surge suggests pain of joblessness has worsened even though official unemployment rate , which counts only people looking for work , held steady at 6 percent in december .
 dr pepper / seven up co , division of cadbury schweppes that sells 7up soft drink brand in north_america , is making preliminary inquiries to at least two smaller ad agencies , seeking ideas for 7up advertising from them as well as from 7up creative agency of record . spending for ads has recently ranged from $ 25 million to $ 45 million per year . creative assignment has been handled since 1995 by young_&_rubicam advertising .
 connecticut_house impeachment committee investigating gov john_g_rowland names 24 potential witnesses who might be able to shed light on scandal over gifts . list includes antiques dealer wayne_pratt , who has told prosecutors that contractor robert_v_matthews funneled money to him to buy rowland 's condominium , to disguise deal as antiques purchase . christine_corey is secretary who rowland hot tub for his cottage .
 rupert_murdoch 's announcement that his news corp will take full control of fox_entertainment_group sends signal that he does not feel pressured to resolve his dispute with john_c_malone 's liberty_media_corp before pushing ahead with other deals . many analysts and investors had expected that murdoch would settle conflict over liberty 's voting interest in news corp before buying out fox . murdoch will buy 18 percent of fox that his company does not own , in deal worth about $ 6 billion .
 supporters of msgr charles_m_kavanagh , former pastor of st_raymond 's church in bronx , celebrate his 40th year as priest even as he awaits cardinal edward_m_egan 's final decision on whether he can return to ministry . kavanagh maintains he did not abuse cathedral preparatory seminary student daniel_donohue 20 years ago .
 national highway_traffic_safety_administration introduces its first major overhaul of tire performance rules to reflect growing popularity of sport utility vehicles and other light trucks . says as much as 11 percent of tires now being produced would not meet new rules , which take effect in june 2007 . is first overhaul to tire regulations since they were imposed in 1967 . changes detailed .
 members of jamaat_al_muslimeen , which has about 1,000 members in trinidad and is region 's most controversial islamic organization , deny that group was tied to plot to bomb fuel pipeline at kennedy_international_airport . yasin abu_bakr , jamaat 's imam , led violent coup attempt in trinidad in 1990 . he faces trial for sedition and extortion .
 los_angeles galaxy has announced that soccer star david_beckham will join team after june 30 . his acquisition is seen as shot in arm for major league soccer , but as sports towns go , los_angeles is hardly among nation 's most rabid . beckham the athlete hardly picked american equivalent of manchester , england , where he played in his prime , but beckham the brand could hardly have picked better place to flourish .
 negotiations on 2005 new_york_city budget hit snag over about $ 250 million that city council wants to add to $ 46.9 billion spending plan . council is focused on restoring much of $ 220 million that mayor bloomberg proposes to cut from current spending levels and adding another $ 129 million for variety of services .
 harvey_brown , whose parents , heyward and ellen_brown , were bludgeoned to death in their ransacked home in lake_grove , ny , in december 1997 , commits suicide in tampa , fla , on his 39th birthday . couple 's younger son , steven_brown , who filed civil wrongful-death lawsuit accusing harvey of committing murders , says his brother 's suicide is admission of guilt .
 south street seaport museum in manhattan is eliminating five full-time and two part-time employees , in effort to reduce budget by $ 1 million dollars . its annual attendance has declined from 700,000 in 1994 to 450,000 , largely because of impact of sept 11 attacks , and museum had $ 700,000 deficit in 2003 . city officials are not yet prepared to meet its request for $ 750,000 in annual operating support toward its $ 5 million budget .
 transportation_security_administration , after spending nearly three years and millions of dollars on replacement system to more closely screen passengers at airports using computer technique called data mining , gives up on idea . plans to pursue more modest goal of integrating various databases maintained by fbi , cia , immigration_and_naturalization_service and state_department and make them available to all those agencies .
 dearborn , mich , mayoral election is slated for feb 27 . city is seen as unofficial arab-american capital of us , with about one in three residents of arab origin . after long-time mayor michael a guido died in dec 2006 , most of arab-american candidates for position dropped out by january , since polls showed they could not win . internal rivalries and general electorate 's lingering unease about muslims is blamed for faded political hopes .
 author connie may fowler op-ed article notes that between aug 13 and sept 24 , florida took direct hits from four major hurricanes . holds that sociological , political and economic schisms that so often define florida have lost some of their punch this hurricane season . maintains that floridians have accepted what nature has wrought with quiet determination and are finally thinking of themselves as one people .
 dr lawrence_k_altman discusses his personal experience talking with then president ronald_reagan about his health and his thoughts on reagan later being diagnosed as having alzheimer 's . holds that there is no evidence that reagan had illness while in office . reagan was monitored closely by team of doctors . estimated 4.5 million americans have alzheimer 's disease , which was first identified by german psychiatrist alois_alzheimer in 1906 . alzheimer 's disease described .
 major television stations in metropolitan new_york return to empire state building for first time in more than 20 years . wnbc-tv becomes last of 11 stations to sign 15-year lease for transmission and antenna space atop building , which all but one broadcaster left decades ago for top of world trade center 's north tower . after sept 11 terrorist attack , some viewers were left with blank or fuzzy screens , and broadcasters were scrambling for new home .
 article describes experience of togo immigrant innocent kodjovi_kossi_abalo , who has wandered and been smuggled from country to country for past decade seeking home and now lives in refugee center in muritz , germany . kossi abalo feels that europeans just want to pass refugee problem on to australia or canada . applied for asylum eight months ago in berlin but has little hope of getting it . hopes to make his way to canada .
 david_sanger reporter 's notebook on pres bush 's visit with parents in kennebunkport reports bush avoids contact with white wine-swilling east coast crowd he derided last summer from heat of his texas ranch . activities include cousin 's wedding , golf , and fishing with his father . photo . white_house takes care to detail bush 's immersion in mideast peace efforts . maine is cool and discreet about family . outgoing press sec ari_fleischer admits contemplating summer on democratic martha 's vineyard .
 queens -lrb- nyc -rrb- landlord rita_stark , who inherited three largely vacant buildings in jamaica from her father fred_stark , has proven reluctant to sell her properties over years , frustrating local developers and new_york_city officials who want to revitalize area around new airtrain station linking manhattan to kennedy_airport .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column contends that pres bush tried to rouse delegates at republican national convention with liberal-media-elite-bashing line . maintains that bush cited 1946 article written by late new_york_times correspondent anne_o'hare_mccormick , but he distorted her dispatch . notes that mccormick was first woman to win pulitzer prize in journalism and first woman to be member of times 's editorial board .
 white_house is preparing for visit by queen elizabeth_ii and prince philip . this is first visit by queen since 1991 , when pres bush 's father was president . white_house aides say that state dinner in her honor is not only social event of year , but also of entire bush presidency . dinner attire is white tie and tails . president was said to be none too keen on that , but bowed to higher power , his wife .
 palestinian suicide bomber blows himself up in outdoor market in hadera , israeli town , killing five other people and wounding more than two dozen . these are first israeli fatalities from suicide bombing in more than three months . israel criticizes palestinian authority for failing to act against armed factions . islamic jihad claims responsibility , calling it retaliation for killing of one of group 's leaders in tulkarm , west_bank_town 10 miles from hadera .
 general motors is holding discussions with kirk_kerkorian 's investment firm tracinda about board representation for his company . how many seats tracinda is seeking is unclear . one seat most likely will go to jerome_b_york , longtime adviser to kerkorian and former chief financial officer of chrysler_corp . gm is insisting that kerkorian agree that he will not increase his stake in company before it agrees to board representation .
 nicole_coste , former flight attendant from togo , tells paris-match magazine that she bore prince albert_ii of monaco a son in 2003 . under monaco 's succession rules , albert 's eldest son would be first in line to take throne upon his death . it is not clear whether this child would have that right if prince refuses to marry his mother . monaco 's palace spokesman would neither confirm nor deny coste 's claims .
 sam_tanenhaus comment on big ideas in american foreign policy , notably george_kennan 's cold war ` containment strategy ' . discusses robert_kagan 's book , of paradise and power , in which state_department veteran takes up growing rift with western_europe . kagan believes that europe 's rejection of ` power politics ' it perfected two centuries ago leaves us alone as gun-toting sheriff in world where true security and defense of liberal order still depend on possession and use of military might .
 jack_curry inside baseball column discusses toronto blue jays players carlos_delgado and vernon_wells , fine hitters who are helping team override its fielding deficiencies and contend because of prolific offense . texas_rangers third baseman hank_blalock is hitting . 341 , but manager buck_showalter still benches him against left-handed pitchers . column contends that new_york mets should have fired general manager steve_phillips last off-season , not during middle of this season .
 rupert_murdoch , chairman of news_corp , gives interview in which he discusses impending acquisition of hughes_electronics and its directtv_satellite_service , ratings slump at fox_broadcast_network and his aspiration to have one of his children succeed him at helm_of_news_corp . pledges to use_news_corp 's vast resources -- hollywood studios , broadcast and cable channels , satellite systems and newspapers -- to redouble directv 's threat to cable companies . says he has no plans to slow down at 72 or go anywhere for several years to come . says he would never sacrifice shareholders ' interest to see one of his children in charge of news_corp . james_murdoch , recently named chief executive of british sky broadcasting , has supplanted his brother lachlan as favorite to succeed their father . elisabeth_murdoch may have better record of success outside news corp than either either james or lachlan .
 new_york officials to unveil plan to build new_york jets 75,000-seat stadium with retractable roof on manhattan 's far west side , and to almost double size of javits convention center . photo . ambitious urban redevelopment would bring professional football back to manhattan . $ 2.8-billion new_york sports and convention center plan is tied to proposal to host 2012 summer olympics and extend subway service west . funding would include $ 600 million each from city and state , $ 500 million from temporary hotel tax and $ 800 million from jets . $ 1.4-billion stadium is most controversial element . javits expansion has wide support .
 general_motors_corp will absorb it errant saturn division . saturn sales fell 22 percent last_year and division has drained billions of dollars from gm . saturn will lose its quasi-independence and be drawn back into gm 's corporate family to cut costs and bolster limited product lineup with more offerings . product development of saturn 's passenger cars are being combined with those of opel , gm 's german brand . preview of new saturns will be offered at north american international auto show in detroit .
 members of louisiana_philharmonic_orchestra , after learning that musicians have authorized strike against radio_city_entertainment and its owner , cablevision_systems , decline invitation of free transportation , lodging and at least $ 1,600 a week for 10 weeks to perform during christmas spectacular . radio city entertainment spokesman barry_watkins , without responding specifically to question of whether it sought to hire louisiana workers , says strike threat left no choice but to explore all alternatives .
 truck driver tyrone m williams goes on trial in houston for deaths of 19 illegal aliens who suffocated inside his trailer in victoria , texas , in may 2003 . photos . prosecutor calls jamaican man from upstate_new_york most evil member of smuggling ring . defense blames ringleaders for 74 people packed into truck . smuggling recruiter says williams preferred drugs but agreed to carry illegals instead .
 fire marshals investigate whether hasan mohammad , 15 , was responsible for dec 20 fire at darul-uloom new_york , private school and mosque in queens . mohammad and his two brothers were taken out of school around jan 1 by their father , who brought family to us from bangladesh three_years_ago . mohammed is arraigned and charged as juvenile with two counts of second-degree murder and other charges related to fire in bronx that killed two people and injured others , including himself , in possible suicide attempt .
 pres bush 's second term has barely begun , and iran is already shaping up as its most serious diplomatic challenge . conflicting pronouncements by bush and his national security team have left iran frustrated and angry about direction of us policy , and europeans more determined than ever to push washington to embrace their engagement strategy . france , germany and britain have opened negotiations with iran that could give iran rewards on nuclear energy , trade and economic , political and security cooperation if iran can provide guarantees that it is not developing nuclear weapon .
 upcoming centennial celebration at le conte_memorial_lodge , library and education center run by sierra_club in yosemite_national_park , is drawing renewed attention to political struggle between liberal_club and rep george_p_radanovich , one of its staunchest conservative critics . he has written legislation that would require that lodge be removed from park . wants to strip sierra_club of its ` special use ' since club pushed for provisions in national_park_service plan that would reduce camping and vehicle use in yosemite_valley , most visited part of park .
 hume_cronyn , one of foremost character actors of american stage and screen for more than 60 years , dies at age of 91 . his stage performances received five tony nominations , and he won in 1964 as polonius in hamlet . in 1994 , he and jessica_tandy , his wife and frequent acting partner , received first tony for lifetime achievement . she died later that year . in his 70 's , he won fresh recognition for his role in popular movie cocoon and its sequel . career recalled .
 pres bush is treated like rock star as he zips through small , relentlessly pro-american albania . thousands of people jam square in downtown tirana in sweltering heat hoping to glimpse presidential motorcade . he is first sitting american president to visit this former communist state . he tells albanians that he supports their effort to join nato and wants independence soon for kosovo , largely ethnic albanian breakaway province of serbia . his eight-hour visit to albania is fifth stop on eight-day , six-country swing through europe .
 boom in cellphone sales and calls in india , which is based on volume , is behind interest in purchase of two-thirds stake in hutchison_essar , owned by hong_kong billionaire li ka-shing . callers in west typically pay more than $ 500 a year for their phones , while indians pay just $ 110 , or $ 9 a month and 2 cents a minute for both local and long-distance calls .
 many builders in new jersey , facing weak commercial market , are eager for school construction jobs . state 's schools are aging and some 53 percent need at least one important repair . gov james e mcgreevey plans to allocate $ 111 million in 2003-2004 budget to finance 254 new school buildings and additions , all set to open by 2005 .
 american international group internal report unsealed by delaware_court reveals new details about inner workings of c v starr and starr_international , private companies whose shareholders are former and current aig executives and that figure in probe of whether aig used questionable deals to improve its financial results . suit by aig shareholder teachers retirement system of louisiana charges aig engaged in self-dealing through companies to shareholder detriment . internal report exonerates aig of any wrongdoing tied to companies , but appears to raise fresh questions . details costly perks and big payouts available to members of two companies .
 rebuilding of berlin 's kaufhaus des_westens , or kadewe , is part of broad overhaul of europe 's venerable department stores , which are , unlike american_stores , investing hundreds of millions of dollars to reinvent themselves . europe 's department stores are largely center-city business , and european cities , unlike american ones , have largely remained havens of middle and upper class . european retailing continues to evolve , despite economic slowdown and lukewarm consumer market . rebuilding of some major european department stores , including selfridges in britain , el_corte_ingles in spain and galeries lafayette in france , discussed .
 policy office in pentagon where lower-level analyst is under suspicion of passing secrets to israel was deeply involved in deliberations over how united_states should deal with iran , issue of intense concern to israel as well . analyst lawrence a franklin , farsi-speaking specialist on iran , participated in secret outreach program with iranian opposition figure and had access to classified intelligence about iran 's nuclear program . was one of many officials involved in drafting top-secret presidential order on iran . pentagon officials say shifting , unresolved nature of bush administration policy toward iran may have led israel or american_israel_public_affairs_committee , lobbying group , to seek window into administration 's decision-making process .
 apple computer got 30 percent discount from samsung electronics on nand flash memory chips used in new ipod nano music players in exchange for buying 40 percent of samsung 's output this year . such a big purchase has tightened supplies of flash memory chips for minor makers of mp3 layers in asia . about 200 of them have reportedly gone out of business because they can not get parts . manufacturers ' prices are starting to rise even though historically price of flash memory has fallen about 40 percent a year .
 nbc takes first steps toward rebuilding its prime-time schedule by ordering five new hours of drama programs , which will be part of fall schedule network plans to announce to advertisers on may 14 . cancels dramas studio 60 on the sunset strip , black donnellys and crossing jordan . new dramas are bionic woman , journeyman , chuck , life and lipstick jungle .
 worldcom 's former chief financial officer scott_d_sullivan , star witness in prosecution 's case against former chief executive bernard_j_ebbers , takes stand , and directly connects ebbers to accounting fraud that brought down company in 2002 . sullivan 's testimony counters arguments by defense that ebbers was incapable of understanding complex accounting and incapable of orchestrating fraud . sullivan , who has already pleaded guilty to his role in $ 11 billion fraud , says he was in constant contact with ebbers during 10 years they worked together . agreed to testify in exchange for consideration of his sentence .
 ned_lamont , who is challenging sen joseph_i_lieberman in connecticut democratic senatorial primary , releases 2005 tax return showing adjusted gross income of more than $ 2.8 million . returns do not include income of wife annie_lamont . lamont 's wealth has emerged as major issue in closely contested race , with lieberman insisting that lamont is wealthy neophyte trying to buy his way into senate .
 pres bush 's fiscal 2004 budget reportedly calls for smallest increase in years in spending for most government programs and little new money at all , except for domestic security and military . wants discretionary spending to grow only by about 4 percent , or about $ 30 billion , in fiscal year . budget dir_mitchell_e_daniels jr comments .
 hindu temple_society_of_north_america in flushing , queens , is divided over whether members of its board of trustees should be elected democratically or named by trustees themselves , as is now the case . state appeals court has sided with plaintiffs seeking elections . dr uma_mysorekar , temple 's president for past nine years , says elections would turn temple into circus . at core of dispute is how temple spend its $ 3 million in annual revenues .
 university of texas is planning $ 2.5 billion program to expand research and teaching in sciences as part of effort to make texas magnet for scientific and medical research . initiative will be one of largest investments in expansion by public_university . money will come from income generated by university 's $ 15.5 billion endowment and donations .
 bob_herbert op-ed column on blacks afflicted by illness caused by environmental dumping in places like anniston , alabama , where chemical plant produced thousands of pounds of pcb for years . residents of poor , black neighborhood were found to have highest concentrations of pcb 's in blood of anyone ever tested . charges that systematic placement of hazardous facilities in black areas is nothing less than unconscionable extension of jim_crow policies .
 stephen_holden critic 's notebook column says 2004 has turned out to be year of the man in movies . focuses on first-rate acting by males in supporting roles , including thomas_haden church in sideways , clive_owen in closer , clark_gregg in in good company and morgan_freeman in million dollar baby . also discusses performance of laura_linney in kinsey and cate blanchett impersonating katharine_hepburn in the aviator .
 thousands of public employees report for duty in iraq , yearning for normalcy but finding few clues of how to begin in debris of their charred and looted offices . us officials arrest hikmat_mizban_ibrahim_al-azzawi , former finance minister , who may be useful in shedding light on saddam_hussein 's personal wealth . emad husayn_abdullah_al-ani , suspected force behind iraq 's program to develop nerve agent vx in 1980 's , turns himself in . foreign ministers from eight middle eastern countries demand that american and british forces leave iraq as soon as possible .
 democrats pick up fifth of six seats needed to win control_of_senate when late count from butte shows jon tester unseating three-term incumbent conrad_burns . tester has lead of 2,601 votes out of 373,109 counted with perhaps 1,000 more to go . burns , apparently undone by ties to lobbyist jack_abramoff , does not concede yet . tester is organic farmer from prairie homestead and was music teacher and soil conservation official before running for state_senate .
 l paul_bremer_iii , top civilian administrator in iraq , receives intelligence that fighters from ansar_al-islam , militant islamic organization that us tried to destroy during war , escaped to iran and has slipped back across border into iraq , where it plans to conduct major terrorist attacks . says hundreds of islamic militants are now in iraq . says al_qaeda may be in iraq but there is no conclusive proof of that . says it is impossible to say whether foreign militant organization or former members of saddam_hussein 's government carried out deadly attack on jordanian embassy in baghdad .
 nicolas_sarkozy , winner of presidential election in france , is unabashedly pro-american . in his acceptance speech he reached out to united_states , signaling his desire to end tension with washington during jacques_chirac 's presidency . sarkozy is , like pres bush , brash , tough-talking and proud of it . his victory is being warmly welcomed in washington . but on issue of iraq his position is similar to chirac 's . he has long defended france 's decision to stay out of that war , citing bitter lessons of his country 's history in algeria and vietnam .
 article on controversial plan being considered by new_jersey_gov_james_mcgreevey to add 20,000 parking spaces in next five years at train stations and bus stops around state . some local officials , including montvale mayor george_zeller , say new spaces will ease traffic congestion and encourage use of mass transit . others , like ramsey mayor richard_muti , disagree .
 preliminary reports show online retailers enjoyed stellar holiday season . some analysts warn that profits made by online merchants this year could be harder to come by in 2004 . comscore networks says e-commerce sales reached $ 11.72 billion from nov 1 to dec 26 , increase of 29 percent from $ 9.08 billion in same period in 2002 . year-to-date sales reached $ 51.51 bilion , up about 22 percent from $ 42.37 billion in same period a year earlier as of dec 26 .
 canwest_global_communications concludes 2.3 billion canadian dollar -lrb- $ 1.97 billion -rrb- deal for alliance atlantis communications . reliance on goldman_sachs to finance sale may challenge canadian laws banning foreign control of broadcasters . canwest must demonstrate that goldman_sachs will not have any effective control over major decisions related to alliance atlantis channels .
 car bomb in baquba kills at least three iraqi_national_guardsmen . photos . us military reports deaths of six american troops in several incidents , including two in roadside bombing in baghdad . pres ayad allawi returns from mideast tour , asking neighboring countries like syria and iran to share information on terrorists . police chief is killed in bomb in mansour neighborhood of baghdad .
 about 80 of california 's largest 100 companies have filed to receive part of $ 1.1 billion antitrust settlement with microsoft with only few days remaining before jan 8 deadline . richard_l_grossman , lead lawyer representing california consumers in settlement fight , says only small percentage of customers eligible to receive part of settlement have filed to claim their share .
 british energy writes down value of its eight british nuclear power plants by 3.6 billion pounds , or over 80 percent , and that of coal-fired plant by 151 million pounds . writedowns contribute to 4.3 billion pound -lrb- $ 7 billion -rrb- loss for fiscal_year_ended_mar_31 , compared with year-earlier profit of 42 million pounds .
 house democrats unveil resolution formally disapproving pres bush 's troop buildup in iraq , opening intense debate . howard_coble estimates 20-25 fellow republicans will vote for nonbinding resolution , reporting calls to his office are running ten to one against war . photo . democrats plan 36 hours of floor debte , showcasing new members who are iraq veterans , and are intent on avoiding procedural stalemate of senate .
 prime min atal bihari_vajpayee says india will restore diplomatic and air links with pakistan in his last effort at peace . hints moves could be first steps of more ambitious effort . breaks 16-month stalemate that began after dec 2001 attack on indian parliament that india blamed on pakistani support for islamic insurgency in kashmir . min mian khursheed mehmood_kasuri says pakistan will also upgrade diplomatic ties and is ready to start talks on all outstanding issues , including that of jammu and kashmir . state sec_colin_l_powell_hails_vajpayee 's move .
 bls figures show that cost of getting to work is increasing all around new_york region , easily outpacing wage gains . transportation costs rose 5.7 percent from mid-2003 through mid-2004 , while average wages rose 3.2 percent . suburban commuters face 5 percent fare increase in two years , following 25 percent rise and parking increases . new jersey transit proposes to increase fares almost_15_percent_,_three_years_after_ten_percent rise . economists and commuters comment .
 camp wellstone , three-day immersion workshop in community organizing , officially nonpartisan but unabashedly liberal , draws 110 people to community college at white_bear_lake , minn . organizers , two surviving sons of late sen paul_wellstone and longtime campaign manager , plan eight more camp wellstones in several states this year and expect to run as many as 20 a year starting in 2004 .
 united_automobile_workers_union reaches labor deals with general_motors_corp and delphi , world 's largest auto parts company , which gm spun off in 1999 , concluding talks with big three automakers . deals , which will result in thousands of job cuts as about dozen plants are closed or sold , reflect broad competitive struggles of domestic manufacturers , and union 's effort to balance desires of its members with shrinking market share and profits of automakers . uaw president ron_gettelfinger and gm chairman-chief executive rick_wagoner comment .
 pres bush has set modest goal of reducing federal deficit to about $ 200 billion by 2009 , but many budget analysts and economists doubt he can achieve it . bush is under fire from democrats and conservative republicans for allowing deficit to reach over $ 400 billion in 2004 . white_house officials say bush 's 2005 budget will hold growth in domestic discretionary programs to less than 1 percent . budget proposal is likely to omit several huge costs that would derail his projections if they were included . administration officials say budget will not include costs of supporting us troops in iraq and afghanistan beyond 2004 .
 commerce sec donald l evans says new_york state has right to prevent columbia_gas_transmission_corp from building its proposed millennium pipeline along route under hudson_river to westchester_county . federal energy regulatory comm approved route pending state and local approval . pataki administration claims route endangers environment . state hopes $ 700 pipeline can still be built along different route .
 severe thunderstorms forced 121 american_airlines flights to divert from dallas to other airports in region on dec_29_, 2006 . although initial published reports focused on flight 1424 from san_jose , calif , to dallas that sat on tarmac for more than eight hours , at least three fully loaded flights were stuck that long . some passengers comment on horrendous conditions on those flights while waiting for planes to get gates to proceed .
 spate of orders for boeing_co 's new 787 dreamliner plane allows company to catch second wind in fiercely competitive marketplace . what seemed like lopsided competition in 2004 -- with airbus rolling up more orders and rolling out more new planes than boeing -- now seems like genuine duel . korean air lines has announced order for 10_787 's . northwest_airlines is near deal to buy as many as 18 . boeing says it has 203 orders and commitments for plane . airbus and boeing are in dispute over european subsidies to airbus , which boeing contends are unfair . airbus is developing a350 , which it expects to challenge boeing 's 787 .
 russian billionaire victor_vekselberg buys entire faberge collection owned by family of malcolm_forbes for undisclosed price and will take it back to russia . works , including nine imperial easter eggs and 180 other pieces , were to be auctioned by sotheby 's in new_york in two months . they are legacy of czarist russia that was scorned by bolsheviks and sold to west for currency to support new regime . now russia 's newly monied class is proudly bringing these trophies of aristocracy back home . spokesman says vekselberg intends to put eggs on public view . experts familiar with faberge market say he probably paid $ 100 million for collection , in largest private sale ever brokered by sotheby_'s .
 anthony_tommasini critic 's notebook on american_symphony_orchestra program to commemorate mozart anniversary , which did not contain any music by mozart . orchestra performed rimsky-korsakov_opera_mozart and salieri , which explores legend that court composer antonio salieri poisoned mozart out of jealousy , and dargomizhsky_opera_stone_guest , which is based on myth of don_juan , subject immortalized by mozart . though performing unorthodox operas by russian composers who were devotees of mozart was program 's aim , exploring mozart 's impact on 19th-century russian culture was larger theme .
 rep major r owens of brooklyn , who has said he will run for re-election for last time this year , faces possible challenges from fellow democrats , among them councilwomen yvette_d_clarke and tracy_boyland and assemblyman n nick_perry . their interest is fueled by speculation that owens might obtain democratic nomination , then decline it , allowing his son , chris_owens , to become nominee .
 joyce_purnick metro matters column comments on former new_york_city mayor rudolph_giuliani 's court appearance during hearing to decide whether first amendment rights of former police officer joseph_locurto and firefighters jonathan_walters and robert_steiner were violated by their dismissals following participation in 1998 parade in which they wore blackface . says exchange between federal judge_john_sprizzo and giuliani was entertaining , but issue was not . reviews giuliani 's role in firings .
 delay of gubernatorial recall election in california , as ordered by federal_appeals_court_panel , creates new raft of complications and potential chaos for democratic presidential race , which will have primary elections in 11 states , including new_york and california , on march 2 , possible new date for recall . aides to some candidates say they almost wish that decision by federal appeals court will be overturned , re-establishing oct 7 recall date . republicans are delighted at prospect that california election could steal thunder from march 2 primaries , which may well decide democratic nominee .
 veteran republican lobbyist tom_c_korologos is now working on intense effort to persuade congress to approve pres bush 's $ 87-billion spending plan for iraq and afghanistan . korologos now officially works for pentagon and says that , at 70 , he has severed ties to timmons_&_co and has no intention of profiting from iraq experience .
 elvis mitchell critic 's notebook column discusses three films shown at toronto international film festival : documentary the five obsessions , directed by lars_von_trier and jorgen_leth , how to get the man 's foot outta your ass , written and directed by mario_van_peebles and documentary afropunk : the rock ` n ' roll nigger experience , directed by james_spooner .
 exodus of connecticut_high_school graduates to out-of-state colleges has slowed in recent years , and now more high school seniors ared attending colleges in state than out , boosting admissions at such colleges as university_of_connecticut , quinnipiac and at community colleges . at uconn for example , where in-state tuition is $ 14,894 -lrb- including room board and fees -rrb- , connecticut students have been applying in record numbers in past few years making it their no . 1 destination .
 washington and oregon reportedly plan to join seven other states in adopting california 's tough car emissions rules , forming potent market for more fuel-efficient vehicles on west_coast and in northeast . pressure is increasing on general_motors and ford , last two domestically owned automakers , to develop more fuel-efficient vehicles . 10 coastal states reportedly account for 29 percent of us 's auto market . further pressure comes from canada , which is forcing automakers to agree to substantial cuts in emissions of global warming gases .
 minoru_mori 's company mori building co to release statistics indicating that 26 million people visited roppongi_hills , $ 2.2 billion ` city within a city ' in tokyo , in its first six months . roppongi hills contains 220 shops , dozens of restaurants , nine-screen virgin group movie theater complex , 52nd-floor observation deck , 380-room grand hyatt hotel and two-story museum , mori art museum .
 joseph_brennan and joseph_cunningham lead group in search of original 1904 subway in new_york_city . brennan has put together a web site detailing history of city 's abandoned subway stations . cunningham volunteers as tour guide for new_york_city transit museum . city 's subway system first opened as single line on oct_27_, 1904 , running from city hall north to grand central , west from there to times square and then finally north again to 145th street and broadway . original city hall station was ceremonial centerpiece of new system , with vaulted ceilings , skylights and dozen chandeliers . but station closed in 1945 .
 black farmers won $ 2 billion judgment in class action suit against agriculture_department in 1999 over discrimination in department 's lending programs , but paperwork and bureaucratic resistance have hindered claims process . department has paid $ 814 million to 13,445 farmers , but rejected claims of 80,000 others because they missed deadline , and has also spent millions of dollars fighting another 22,000 claims filed on time . individual farmers have trouble documenting discrimination .
 four days of talks between north and south_korea end with south agreeing to ship 200,000 tons of fertilizer to north as aid but failing to get north to agree to any conciliatory message about nuclear crisis . two sides agree to cabinet-level meetings next month . white_house confirms that american and north korean officials met last week in new_york , first such meeting in six months .
 four firefighters are killed and one is seriously injured when arson fire rips through hilly patch of riverside_county in southern_california , destroying thousands of acres and forcing hundreds of residents to evacuate their homes . fire is buoyed by strong and gusting winds . officials offer $ 100,000 to any informant who leads them to arrest of arsonist . gov arnold_schwarzenegger declares state of emergency .
 some gay republicans say they may still vote for pres bush despite his support for constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage . deplore assumption that they are single-issue voters . some are waiting to see how hard he will push issue , playing move down for now as needed to appease his political base . exit polls show one million voters who identified themselves as gay voted for him in 2000 , about 1 percent of electorate and about 25 percent of gay vote .
 china 's announcement that its gross domestic product in 2004 was nearly $ 2 trillion , not $ 1.65 trillion previously reported , forces economists nd financial prognosticators to rethink their assessment of china 's rise and its role on world stage . new figures suggest that china has today passed france , italy and britain to become world 's fourth-largest economy after us , japan and germany . economists say figures also suggest that china 's economy is healthier , more diversified and more sustainable than they previously believed .
 dr david_haussler , howard_hughes_medical_institute investigator working at university_of_california , santa_cruz , co-authors report on computer analysis designed to reconstruct genome of 80-million-year-old mammal . holds that program has 98.5 percent accuracy rate and over next four years will formulate entire genome of ancestral mammal from total of 37 current mammalian species , including humans . research is published in journal genome research .
 casino operators hope to transform atlantic_city into world-class entertainment destination . new casinos in pennsylvania and slot machines at yonkers_raceway are cutting into revenues of atlantic_city casinos . their operators hope to emulate las_vegas , offering fine food , big-name performers and other amenities to lure younger , more free-spending tourists from among roughly 50 million people who live within day 's drive away . city is in midst of its biggest building boom since 1980s . casino operators have invested more than $ 4 billion there over past five years , and plans are on drawing board for at least two more megacasinos , each costing more than $ 1 billion .
 general_electric_co 's lawyers_attack_european_commission_during_appeal_of_commission 's veto of ge 's $ 43 billion acquisition of honeywell in 2001 . deal will not be revived even if ge 's legal team persuades court of first instance in luxembourg to annnul three-year-old order . ge and honeywell are appealing ruling in order to clarify european law on mergers .
 analysis of two arguments that were never resolved before shooting started in iraq , that pres bush is moving to resolve now that end of war is in sight . first is one between united_states and europe over who will run iraq , and second is between his own state and defense depts over how to run it .
 alan_greenspan , chairman of federal_reserve , provides pres bush will some welcome support on war with iraq , suggesting that fed is ready to lower interest rates if war goes worse than expected and expressing little worry over cost of war or risks of disruption to world oil supplies . many people who worked in first bush administration still blame greenspan for 1992 re-election defeat , and there remains some tension between fed and current white_house , where many people would like to install their own candidate when greenspan 's term as chairman ends in june 2004 , but his credibility in financial markets is so strong and and his acuity so well regarded that bush can not do without him for moment .
 prime min tony_blair meets in london with iraqi prime min ayad_allawi , admonishing other nations not to waver in their support for military victory in iraq and establishment of democracy there . seeks to counter deepening skepticism in europe and at united_nations about anglo-american venture in iraq , which french pres jacques chirac recently referred to as ` pandora 's box ' .
 unions representing new_york_city 's police , firefighters and teachers assert that raises agreed to by district council 37 's workers should not set pattern for their members . dc-37 workers received 5 percent over three years , with possibility of additional 1 percent . unions say small raise will hamper efforts to recruit employees to their ranks . bloomberg_administration says wage package should be model for wages as well as for cost savings that dc-37 accepted .
 pres bush 's retreat in crawford , tex , and sen john_kerry 's would-be presidential retreat in ketchum , idaho , seem as far apart as candidates themselves . ketchum has turned into celebrity playgound , with fabulous restaurants and multimillion-dollar homes , while crawford , population 700 , has ranches that sell for modest prices , only one restaurant and only one celebrity other than pres bush , 70 's rocker ted_nugent .
 federal reserve raises short-term interest rates to 4 percent from 3.75 percent , despite back-to-back hurricanes and higher oil prices . fed policy makers say economic disruptions caused by hurricanes were essentially transitory and signal that they are more concerned about higher inflation than slower growth . fed is expected to raise rates in december and january , and will probably keep going after chairman alan_greenspan retires at end of january .
 seoul 's mayor lee myung bak and south_korea 's pres-elect roh moo hyun present ambitious plans for inchon , 30 miles from seoul , before foreign officials and business executives gathered in inchon . say seoul can become financial center of northeast_asia . officials seem oblivious to mounting international tensions over north_korea 's nuclear weapons program and possibility of military conflict between north and us .
 forest whitaker arrives in kampala , uganda , for official opening of movie the last king of scotland , in which he stars as mercurial dictator idi amin . bootlegged versions of movie arrived weeks ago from china . ugandans are struck by whitaker 's likeness to amin and moved by scenes of era they would like to forget . are proud that one of past year 's surprise hits is filmed in uganda . amin family is displeased at whitaker 's portrayal of amin as madman .
 family of amadou_diallo , west african street vendor shot by police in the bronx in 1999 , agrees to $ 3-million settlement of civil lawsuit against new_york_city . four officers , who thought diallo had drawn gun and resembled rape suspect , were acquitted of murder . city and police department admit no wrongdoing in case , but diallo 's mother kadiatou says apology is accepted . she had sought more than $ 60 million .
 three railroad bridges in southeastern_connecticut are among most antiquated and least reliable in amtrak system and in such poor condition that amtrak engineers say they threaten service between new_york and boston . engineers want congress to approve $ 1.5 billion appropriation to fix or replace bridgese and do other repairs , but are having little success .
 loral space and communications files for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and plans to sell its most profitable business , fleet of six communications satellites orbiting over north_america , to intelsat_ltd for as much as $ 1.1 billion in cash . intelsat will borrow $ 2.1 billion to finance purchase and rearrange its debts in effort to preserve investment-grade rating . boeing_co , which has been hurt in satellite business by lack of new satellite orders and decline in its rocket-launching operations , will take $ 835 million charge because it does not expect any commercial launching orders over next five years .
 battles break out in kufa , iraq , killing at least five militiamen , day after declaration of truce between american soldiers and forces loyal to rebel shiite cleric moktada al-sadr . each side accuses other of shooting first . both say they will honor truce . large bands of militiamen armed with ak-47 ` s and heavy weapons roam streets of kufa and neighboring najaf . al-sadr does not appaear at his kufa mosque to deliver weekly sermon . his aide speaks instead , denouncing americans .
 article profiles joseph_c_wilson_iv , who finds himself enmeshed in web of discord after challenging bush administration 's claim that saddam_hussein sought uranium from niger to build nuclear weapons and then accused senior member of administration of leaking identity of his wife valerie_plame , cia officer , as relaliation . episode renews focus on simmering conflict between architects of first bush administration , who embraced international approach to foreign policy , and senior officials in second bush administration , who employ more unilateral approach .
 article on financial dilemmas that municipalities in westchester_county , ny , often face over large , treasured trees close to highways and roadways , which could become liabilities for municipalities as well as homeowners when they fall . greenburgh , yonkers and some other towns are instituting tree-inspection programs in wake of two fatal accidents and subsequent lawsuits . greenburgh has increased its liability insurance to $ 21 million from $ 4 million , has earmarked about $ 100,000 for tree removal , inspects trees on daily basis and has removed about 100 trees in last year .
 joyce_purnick column on metropolitan_transportation_authority 's new push for second avenue subway and east side access project to allow long_island rail road trains to use grand central station . says mta is using these two popular projects to build rationale and constituency for greater resources it will need for maintenance and expansion . interviews peter_s_kalikow , mta chairman .
 closing arguments are set to begin in five-month-long trial of lawsuit brought against ibm by two former employees who accuse it of knowingly exposing them to dangerous chemicals . defense lawyer has tried to show that no link exists between ibm factory where plaintiffs worked and cancers they later developed . suit was brought by alida_hernandez and james_moore , both of whom worked at ibm factory in south_san_jose , calif .
 interviews and public opinion graphs illustrating echoes of sept 11 attacks in american life five_years_later . battle against terrorism has come to cities and towns across us in form of old-fashioned political pork . colorado has had to return $ 1.5 million to federal government this year for improperly allocating some of more than $ 154 million in domestic security grants .
 peoplesoft fires its president and chief executive , craig_a_conway , move that appears to increase likelihood that company will be taken over by oracle_corp . board , citing ` loss of confidence ' in conway , says decision is unrelated to $ 7.7 billion bid by oracle . conway has been vigorous opponent of hostile bid . board names david_a_duffield , founder and chairman of peoplesoft , as new chief executive , and appoints kevin_t_parker and w phillip_wilmington as co-presidents , effective immediately . justice department says it will not appeal federal court decision in antitrust case last_month that allowed oracle to proceed with its bid .
 justice sandra day o'connor indicates that she will serve out next term of supreme_court . appears in unusual televised interview on abc program this week , together with justice stephen_g_breyer . responds to speculation that she is ready to retire . denies longstanding reports that she had intended , in 2000 , to retire unless vice pres al gore was elected president .
 profile of and interview with lonnie g bunch , director of smithsonian institution 's new national museum of african american history and culture . while congress has authorized $ 3.9 million in start-up financing and estimated costs to complete museum top $ 300 million , no actual museum exists and will probably not for another decade .
 china reports textile and apparel exports to united_states jumped about 75 percent in jan , first month after end of all quotas on textiles and apparel around world , to over $ 1.2 billion , up from some $ 701 million in jan 2004 . us imports of major apparel products from china jumped 546 percent . surge is early evidence that china could be ready to dominate global textile trade , adding to trade tensions around world . figures do not include large part of its goods that china ships through hong_kong . bureau of labor statistics figures show 12,200 jobs were lost in us apparel and textile industries in jan .
 lawrence j_ellison , chief executive of oracle , reportedly reaches tentative agreement under which he will pay $ 100 million to charity to resolve shareholder lawsuit filed in california charging that he sold almost $ 900 mllion shares of oracle in 2001 ahead of news that company would not meet its expected earnings target . shares lost almost half their value after announcement . ellison successfully fought similar lawsuit in delaware . fact that payment is to go to charity rather than to company , as typically happens in derivative lawsuits , suggests that both sides compromised . plaintiffs ' lawyers will receive about $ 22.5 million , separate from $ 100 million payment .
 aer_lingus passenger jet flying from new_york to ireland is evacuated and searched at shannon_airport after anonymous caller tells police that liquid explosive was planted on board . police refuse to say whether suspicious articles were found . alarm is one of several on aug 25 , two weeks after british authorities arrested two dozen suspects accused of planning to bomb trans-atlantic flights .
 hedge fund executive and art collector steven a cohen reportedly will buy and combine two apartments in upper_east side building for about $ 24 million . his former protege , david_ganek , also recently bought apartment in exclusive manhattan co-op that will go well as backdrop for his art collection . top two floors of what was once triplex fifth ave penthouse owned by nelson_rockefeller are being offered for sale . architect richard_meier 's latest luxury apartment building project is beachfront building being developed by lynx strategic development in surfside , fla , community north of miami_beach .
 cody thunder , 15-year-old student at red_lake_high_school , says he reached out to jeff_weise in days before weise , 16 , came to school and shot to death 8 people , including himself , after first killing his grandfather and grandfather 's companion . thunder , one of those wounded by weise , says it appeared that weise pointed gun specifically at him . weise 's grandmother says boy had been receiving mental health counseling and drugs for depression in recent months . evidence mounts that weise was avid participant in internet discussion groups , with postings under his name that mention weapons and violence .
 new_york gov george_e_pataki , new jersey gov jon_s_corzine , new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg and port authority of new_york and new jersey hand plan to developer larry a silverstein that reduces his role in redevelopment of world trade center site . move ends months of political fighting among various agencies and fruitless negotiations .
 two powerful suicide bombs rip through baghdad 's main police academy , killing at least 36 police officers and wounding 72 others , in deadliest attack in capital in months . attack underscores continuing vulnerability of iraqi forces , even in baghdad , as pres bush comes under increasing political pressure at home to start withdrawing some of 160,000 american troops in iraq . it also shows that insurgents have infiltrated deepest levels of iraqi forces , danger that has bedeviled american enterprise from start . al qaeda in mesopotamia , led by abu_musab_al-zarqawi , claims responsibility for attack . american generals say they expect violence to increase as saddam_hussein 's trial continues and country prepares for dec 15 elections . al jazeera broadcasts videotape from militant_group_islamic_army in iraq showing what appears to be latest victim in wave of abductions of westerners , american security consultant identified as ronald_alan_schulz . captors threaten to kill him in 72 hours unless all detainees in iraq are released .
 parmalat 's founder calisto_tanzi , who is in police custody in italy , has hinted to investigators that accounting fraud uncovered at parmalat was driven partly by need to hide huge losses at company 's south american operations . lawsuit by american pension fund accuses citigroup of helping parmalat cover gap in its balance sheet created by brazilian subsidiary . giovanni_bonici , who once ran parmalat 's venezuela unit , returned to italy and surrendered to authorities last week after hiding in venezuela . many analysts doubt that parmalat 's operations in south_america , unprofitable though they are , could have brought down giant dairy and food company with operations in 31 countries .
 gretchen_morgenson column on thomas_j_neff and james_m_citrin 's 1999 book lessons from the top : the search for america 's best business leaders , focusing on secrets-of-my-success tips offered by kenneth j lay -lrb- enron -rrb- , l dennis_kozlowski -lrb- tyco -rrb- and bernard j ebbers -lrb- worldcom -rrb- . notes that since its publication , companies of nine of 50 executives profiled have become subject of criminal prosecution , regulatory rebuke , shareholder revolts or all three .
 high ridge park in stamford , conn , pioneer of suburban office campus boom of 1970 's and 1980 's , is sold to george_comfort_&_sons_real_estate_co in manhattan for $ 86 million . is last remaining piece of 4.4-million - square-foot real estate empire created in stamford from mid-1960 ` s to mid-1980 ' s by f d rich co .
 fred kaplan article notes that richard_nixon resigned as president on aug 8 , 1974 . praises nixon 's foreign policy and its architect henry_kissinger . contends that if kissinger of 1970 's had been magically transported to white_house of past three years , pres bush might have handled his own crises differently .
 prosecutors have tough time determining how many , if any , patients were murdered by charles_cullen , respiratory therapist who has confessed to causing 30 or 40 deaths over 16 years at nine hospitals and nursing homes in new jersey and pennsylvania . there have been other cases in which accurate death count of serial murderers can not be determined .
 gen john p abizaid in 2005 told senate_armed_services_committee that gradual withdrawal of us troops from iraq was imperative . abizaid this week told same committee that us forces may be all that is preventing full-scale civil war in iraq , so phased troop withdrawal would be mistake . military experts say that insurgency of baathists and foreign jihadists is no longer greatest enemy us faces in iraq . say biggest danger is that violence between shiites and sunnis could destroy iraq 's government and spill across middle_east .
 chief warrant officer aaron_a_weaver , 32 , who survived famous black hawk down attack in somalia and , more recently , three rounds of surgery for testicular cancer , dies in iraq in crash of black hawk helicopter near falluja . weaver , who relatives say insisted on serving in iraq , dies with eight others while en route to medical checkup . photo . he was awarded bronze star in 1994 .
 national highway traffic safety administration figures show gap in safety between sport utility vehicles and passenger cars last year was widest yet recorded . find people driving or riding in sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in accident the people in cars . says crash fatalities declined across board in 2003 to lowest levels in six years , with 42,643 people killed in traffic accidents in us . ward 's autoinfobank says suv 's accounted for 27.2 percent of all light-duty vehicles in first_seven_months_of 2004 , up from 26 percent in period year earlier .
 co-op owners at 2 fifth avenue , new_york_city , succeed in buying land under their building from rudin family for $ 29.25 million after 20-year effort . novelists jonathan_safran_foer and nicole_krauss seek to sell their park slope , brooklyn , house and are buying bigger home on same block . writer malcolm_gladwell sells his tribeca apartment for $ 1.995 million .
 addition of second monitor for windows or mac computers offers improved productivity and workflow advantages . survey by jon_peddie research shows improvements up to 20 to 30 percent when using two displays . second monitor allows user to see current and earlier drafts , compare spreadsheets or work with different applications simultaneously . video game enthusiasts become more immersed in action when using multiple screens , sometimes using as many as three or four on one computer . software designed for multiple screens includes such titles as quake , doom and microsoft flight simulator .
 berlin-based artemis quartet , after delay at boston 's logan_airport for background check of cellist eckart runge under us patriot act , is set to begin american tour that includes two concerts in new_york . runge , 36 , had been arrested in colorado in 1991 for shoplifting pair of 99-cent tweezers . group completed two american tours after 9/11 attacks but runge was denied visa in 2002 , which prevented group from touring .
 jersey footlights column : opera festival of new jersey artistic director david_agler comments on upcoming season . percussionist she-e wu will lead rutgers percussion ensemble in free concert at douglas_college in new_brunswick . ralph_litwin and al_podber , also known as fabulous furry harmonica_brothers , will give free concert in raritan . montclair_state_university 's theaterfest program chooses a delicate arrangement , play by dawn_o'leary , as winner of 2003 regional playwriting contest .
 article on questions raised about academic performance in long_island 's charter schools . scores on new_york state tests show 60 percent of fourth graders at roosevelt_children 's academy met state standards on verbal exam , compared with 69 percent of students in rest of school district . 68 percent of students met math standards , 11 percent lower than rest of disrict . disparities are also evident at charter schools in riverhead and east_hampton .
 congress will review college-grant program established in 1999 that provides students from district_of_columbia as much as $ 10,000 annually to pay difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition at state universities and some private institutions . program was established to compensate students because district of columbia has only one public university . legislators are concerned over rise in program 's budget , from initial $ 17 million to $ 33.2 million . supporters say program has helped students , many of them poor , get otherwise unreachable college education .
 jds_uniphase says founder jozef_straus is retiring as chief executive and co-chairman and will be replaced by kevin_kennedy , formerly chief operating officer of openwave_systems_inc . chief operating officer syrus_madavi resigns . company 's shares rise 31 cents , or nearly 10 percent , to $ 3.50 . stock traded above $ 146 in march 2000 .
 abc dramatic series lost and cbs_comedy_everybody_loves_raymond , which ended nine-year run in may , win top honors at 57th emmy awards . patricia_arquette wins best actress in drama series for medium , and tony_shalhoub wins his second award as best actor in comedy series for monk . james_spader and william_shatner win best actor and best supporting actor awards for their roles in boston public , second award for both men . felicity huffman wins best actress in comedy series for desperate housewives . other winners noted .
 at the movies column . mark_moskowitz 's documentary stone reader , about his long fascination with dow_mossman 's only novel the stones of summer leads to deal with barnes_&_noble chief executive steve_riggio . film will be promoted and novel will be reprinted . playwright-filmmaker neil_labute discusses film adaptation of his play the shape of things . french rock ` n ' roll legend johnny_hallyday , now 59 , explains role in patrice_leconte 's new movie man on the train .
 chillingly precise car bomb in beirut kills george_hawi , sharp critic of syria . photo . former communist party head has been campaigning for opposition candidates in final round of elections . small but deadly bomb under passenger seat appears identical to one that killed journalist samir_kassir on june 2 . both cause little other damage , with even hawi 's driver uninjured . lebanese widely blame syrian operatives , as in murder of rafik hariri in february .
 questions of united_states_versus_europe , or even of ` old europe ' versus ` new_europe , ' mean little to imre_kertesz , hungarian novelist and nobel prize winner , who says that as an artist , he is european , but he can not shake his emotional attachment to united_states . like kertesz -- and unlike many of their counterparts in western_europe -- several writers and other cultural figures from eastern and central_europe seem reluctant to take sides in increasingly fraught dispute that is fracturing old political alliances .
 manila envelopes have been surreptitiously left in city hall pressroom containing memos and confidential reports about new_york_city council 's handling of sexual harassment accusations against councilman allan_w_jennings jr . one envelope provides evidence that saphora m lifrak , staff lawyer , told speaker gifford_miller about harassment by jennings . reporters variously attribute leaks to bloomberg_administration , city council , lifrak and jennings himself . all deny responsibility .
 profiles of american pianist blair_mcmillen , 34 , and british-born pianist stephen_gosling , 34 , who have become young stars of new music scene in new_york . two will perform on same program of mostly new and recent works on october 15 at tenri_cultural_institute , presented by new_group_american_modern_ensemble .
 boston red sox erase three-game deficit and defeat new_york_yankees 10-3 in game 7 of american league championship series to advance to world series . red sox become first team in baseball history to win best-of-seven series after losing first three games . series is devastating failure for yankees , whose $ 180 million payroll is highest ever for baseball team . red sox to face either houston astros or st_louis_cardinals in game 1 of world series at fenway park on oct_23 .
 refugees from afghanistan who were turned away from australia in august 2001 endure harsh conditions and uncertain future in camp on nauru . australian prime min john_howard 's tough stance on refugees was popular and helped him win re-election . he called on other countries to accept refugees , and nauru obliged in exchange for $ 10 million . international refugee officials have been critical of australia 's behavior . nauru has refused to admit journalists and has limited lawyers ' access to refugees . refugees ' long journey described .
 op-ed article by scott_christianson , former executive assistant to new_york state director of criminal justice , questions why suffolk_county district attorney thomas_spota , given all the new evidence that has been uncovered , has not reversed conviction and convened new grand jury in case of martin_tankleff , who was convicted of murdering his parents , arlene and seymour_tankleff , in 1988 .
 sec of state_colin_l_powell makes unannounced visit to iraq , intending to highlight progress under way on first anniversary of start of war . 30 iraqi and other journalists for arabic news media walk out of briefing by powell in baghdad in protest over deaths of ali_al-khatib and ali_abdul_aziz , journalists working for arabiya satellite network who were killed in shooting episode with us forces .
 e-mail messages and other documents released by justice_dept suggest atty gen alberto_gonzales was told of plans to dismiss eight united_states attorneys on at least two occasions in 2005 and again shortly before plan was carried out in late 2006 . gonzales has said he played little role in deliberations . conflict between record and gonzales 's version has contributed to erosion of support for him in congress and fed suspicions that ousters were orchestrated from start by bush administration for political purposes .
 clyde_haberman nyc column comments on hearing that will determine whether former police officer joseph_locurto and firefighters jonathan_walters and robert_steiner should be reinstated after being dismissed for riding on racist parade float in broad channel , queens , in 1998 . contends that if locurto returns to duty , biggest losers will be new_york_city residents who rely on police to act without regard to race .
 air_force panel sent to investigate religious climate at air_force_academy finds evidence that officers and faculty members periodically used their positions to promote their christian beliefs and failed to accommodate religious needs of non-christian cadets . panel says it found ` insensitivity ' but no ` overt religious discrimination ' and praises academy leadership for working aggressively to confront religious problems in last two years . report notes that of 4,400 cadets surveyed , 85 percent were christian , 2 percent were atheists , 1.5 percent were jewish , 0.3 percent were hindu , 0.4 percent were muslim , and 9.3 percent gave no preference . panel was appointed after more than year of complaints about religious coercion .
 sept 11 commission leaders thomas_h_kean and lee_hamilton ask other eight panel members to try to avoid appearance of partisanship that could undermine public perceptions of commission 's work as they prepare to question national security adviser condoleezza_rice . panel discloses that it has identified documents from clinton white house that need to be given to commission by bush administration . administration officials say rice will refute earlier testimony of richard_clarke , who asserted that she and bush failed to understand danger . areas of inquiry likely to come up in testimony noted .
 state treasurers and local financial officials from louisiana , mississippi and alabama conclude that they will need federal aid to help pay billions of dollars in debt as well as finance area 's reconstruction . states are losing money from various taxes . state officials are considering proposals for federal government to make payments on existing bonds and cover short-term municipal operating costs . are talking about issuing recovery bonds . state economic development officials are heading to washington with $ 52 billion plan involving tax credits and other development incentives to keep businesses from leaving . are hoping that $ 30 billion will be directed to louisiana , $ 15 billion to mississippi and $ 7 billion to alabama .
 profile of husein_cumber , youngest of pres bush 's ranger fund-raisers , having collected $ 200,000 well before his 29th birthday this year . he is one of 89 fund-raisers under 40 who have collectively raised millions of dollars for campaign , placing him among elite group of young men and women who will help choose future candidates and influence republican party .
 sen charles_e_schumer of new_york is up for re-election in 2004 and is viewed as formidable incumbent with advantage that are likely to give any republican challenger pause . has already raised $ 15 million , and each year since he was elected in 1998 , he has visited all 62 counties in state , where democrats outnumber republicans by ratio of five to three .
 community service society says new_york_city 's strongest job market in decades is not helping its youngest workers find jobs . cites sharp decrease in employment among residents aged 16 to 24 from 2000 to 2006 , period for which employment rose for most other groups . rate of joblessness among teenagers in city is nearly double national rate of 15.4 percent .
 olive groves that have sustained jaen region of spain for centuries have been devastated by record-breaking freeze last_winter followed by worst drought in 60 years . gravity of problem extends far beyond this year 's harvest , since badly damaged groves can take up to 10 years to regain full producitivy . in town of cambil , where practically every family owns olive trees , effects are likely to be profound .
 prime min ehud olmert rejects demand by palestinian militants that israel start releasing 1,500 palestinian prisoners by july 4 or risk life of captured israeli soldier , cpl gilad_shalit . spokesman for one militant group refuses to disclose whether shalit will be killed or not . israeli tanks begin moving in greater numbers into beit_hanoun neighborhood of northern_gaza . israeli police arrest three palestinians in ramallah on west_bank in connection with killing of jewish settler . syria , says it had nothing to do with shalit 's capture and can play no role in obtaining his freedom . israeli defense minister , amir_pertz , has said he will hold pres bashar al-assad of syria to account .
 bush administration says its first complete budget for dept of homeland security , calling for 7.4 percent increase in spending on domestic security programs , reflects its full support for department . congressional democrats respond by saying new superagency is being dangerously underfinanced . sharply different assessments of adequacy of dept 's $ 36.2 billion spending request suggest issue of domestic security spending could dominate budget negotiations this year in congress and become major issue in next year 's presidential campaign .
 japanese financial authorities are waging battle against rising yen , which they see as one of biggest threats to nation 's economic recover . analysts and investors are questioning how long they can keep it up . japan has spent record 10.5 trillion yen , or $ 94.5 billion , so far this year to purchase dollars in an attempt to protect value of its exports , engine of country 's economic recovery . japan has accumulated largest foreign-currency reserves in world , at $ 777 billion , much of it invested in treasury debt .
 group of eight real estate companies , including some of new_york and new jersey 's major players , is investing $ 3 million to $ 5 million , ideas , and hands - on experience in creation of web-based computer software product tailored to suit particular needs of property managers . software being developed by integrated business systems , incorporates web browser that provides access to company 's central database via any internet connection and employs internet 's speed and agility for complex business tasks . software will called ibs 10.0 i . integrated business systems president robert_entin comments .
 senate opens debate on resolution that would repeal all of new media ownership rules adopted three months ago by federal_communications_commission . white house issues statement before debate begins threatening to veto resolution . resolution to repeal series of rules that would enable largest media conglomerates to expand , enjoys broad bipartisan supportin republican-controlled senate . repeal faces difficulty in house . sponsors of resolution are sens byron_l_dorgan and trent_lott , who stepped down last year .
 there are signs that american adoptions from guatemala may end . country is second most popular destination for overseas adoptions , after china . state dept does not recommend adopting from guatemala , citing unethical practices . nation has so far failed to endorse hague convention on intercountry adoption . 4,135 children came to us from guatemala in 2006 .
 cathay pacific_airways says it will operate 37 percent fewer flights than planned and singapore_airlines sets 19.7 percent cutback through end of may because passengers have been scared off by emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome . cathay pacific warns its first half financial results will be materially affected by sudden and unexpected collapse in passenger demand caused by sars and iraq war . neither carrier sets large-scale layoffs .
 gov george e pataki and mayor michael r bloomberg support building new metro north commuter rail station at site of new yankee stadium in bronx . call on metropolitan_transportation_authority to devise plan for station , which is estimated to cost $ 30 million to $ 40 million . station could counteract complaints by local critics who forecast even more congestion in area . funding is unclear .
 nellie_connally , who was riding in car with pres john_f_kennedy when he was shot in dallas almost 40 years ago , recalls horror of that day . says dallas crowds were cheering motorcade when she heard shots ring out . kennedy was dead , her husband , gov john_connally , was gravely wounded , and course of history was forever altered . she says she first scrawled out story 10 days after the event , and decided to write memoir after rediscovering her notes years later . her book , from love field , with writer mickey_herskowitz , has just been published .
 sen john_edwards and sen john_kerry campaign vigorously in iowa , even though not even their biggest boosters are are saying two have chance of winning caucuses there , given overwhelming organizational strength of both howard_dean and rep richard a gephardt . edwards and kerry are aiming for second or third place .
 at the movies column : director charles_herman-wurmfield , whose latest film , legally blonde 2 : red , white and blonde , will be released on july 2 , comments on luxury of having movie produced by mgm and working with actress reese_witherspoon . screenwriter alex_garland , during new_york leg of press tour , comments on his new film 28 days later and working once again with director danny_boyle .
 horst fascher , who was manager of music_club when he brought beatles to hamburg , germany , in 1962 , has published memoir that is full of anecdotes about his adventures and misadventures with some of legends of music business . book has come out just at moment when hamburg , having disappeared from pop music scene decades ago , is in mood to commemorate moment when it was probably most important continental outpost of british and american_pop_music . city will build beatles platz to commemorate time when they made hamburg their home away from home . fascher photo .
 jason_horowitz article holds that as 115 cardinals from 52 countries prepare to select next pope , some vatican historians believe that election of another foreigner will conclude historic shift of power away from italy . says according to this school of thought , papacy needs to mirror catholicism 's growth in southern_hemisphere , where ranks are increasing in africa and latin_america while shrinking in europe .
 latin american school of medical sciences in havana , cuba , offers students typical medical education plus some communist theory . pres fidel_castro came up with idea for school in late 1990 's . cuban government offers full scholarships to poor students from throughout americas and africa . most students at school are driven by strong personal desire to practice medicine more than any affinity for castro . 90 students from united_states recoil at notion that they are propaganda tools for cuba , as critics suggest .
 sen barbara_boxer , california democrat and member of foreign relations committee , says her persistent and combative opposition to condoleezza_rice 's nomination to be secretary of state is based in large part on her opposition to what she sees as bush administration 's misleading and misguided rationale for iraq war . she contends 25 percent of iraq war dead are from california .
 holland cotter critic 's notebook column reviews several black and ` post-black ' art exhibits : african-american masterworks from smithsonian american art museum . drawings of montgomery bus boycott by harvey_dinnerstein and burton_silverman at delaware art museum . works by kerry_james_marshall at baltimore museum of art . national great blacks in wax museum in baltimore . works by ethiopian artists wosene worke kosrof and others at walters_art_museum and newark museum . selections from permament collection of studio museum in manhattan . works by charles_spinky_alston at bill_hodges_gallery in manhattan .
 mel_gibson 's passion of the christ earns estimated $ 17 million during holy week , increase of 61 percent from previous weekend . film has grossed $ 354.8 million in us since opening seven weeks ago , making it eighth-highest-grossing film of all time . book , cd and jewelry tie-ins are selling well , with book the passion : photography from the movie the passion of the christ ranking third on this week 's new_york_times_nonfiction best-seller list .
 brooklyn dist atty charles_j_hynes to seek indictment of police officer richard_s_neri jr in fatal shooting of timothy_stansbury jr , 19 , on roof of housing project . charge could be criminally negligent homicide or second-degree manslaughter . stansbury had no weapon and two companions say no words were exchanged before neri fired . officer reportedly was startled to see stansbury when he opened roof door while patrolling louis_armstrong houses with partner . investigators believe neri , who had never fired weapon in almost 12 years on force , may have pulled trigger accidentally . officers may patrol with guns drawn in potentially dangerous places like rooftops and stairwells .
 united states officials say that iran has taken into custody third-ranking member of al_qaeda , saif_al-adel , but has rebuffed initial american effort to have him and other top qaeda officials handed over to washington . american and middle_eastern officials say iran had signaled that any surrender of qaeda figures to united_states should be matched by surrender to tehran of member of mujahedeen_khalq , iranian opposition group that is on state_dept 's list of terrorist orgns . many of that group 's members are in camps under american military supervision in iraq .
 freddie_mac 's board decided to promote gregory_parseghian to chief executive in june even though it had already been briefed by his role in transactions that outside investigation called into question . lawyers at baker_botts , firm that investigated accounting practices at freddie_mac , presented their findings to directors in early june , before board replaced its top executives . board gives parseghian_additional_role_of_chairman_of_freddie_mac_foundation , succeeding leland_c_brendsel .
 fisk_university , cash-poor , historically black institution , reaches agreement that will allow it to sell two paintings , each appraised at $ 8.5 million , if no donor is found to keep them at university . georgia_o'keeffe_museum in santa_fe , which sued to stop sale , would buy o'keeffe work for $ 7 million if no donor steps forward . other painting , by marsden_hartley , would be sold at auction .
 article on cache of 150 letters dating from 1943 , responses to monthly newsletter , news from home , written by ethel_parry fish and sent to american servicemen , found by rev sally_colegrove in attic of first congregational_church_of_greenwich , conn . newsletter , one of which survives , and letters serve as reminders of what soldiers during world war ii were going through .
 analysis of dismissal of cbs_news executives betsy_west , mary_murphy , mary_mapes and josh_howard over 60 minutes ii tv program that dealt with pres bush 's service in texas_air_national_guard , which independent panel found unfair and misleading after being rushed to broadcast without proper vetting . says what actions will mean is still uncertain , though several staff members report morale in news department to be devastastingly low . holds one lingering question is how much accountability should be laid at feet of andrew_heyward , president of news division . says several cbs_news staff members continue to question heyward 's level of responsibility . holds cbs chairman leslie_moonves says he wants to reinforce leadership of heyward and points to panel 's conclusions that he made effort to question authentication offered for documents in report .
 lamborghini spokesman sergio_fontana discusses company 's decision to donate lamborghini_gallardo to italian highway police to commemorate 152nd anniversary of national_police_force . chief inspector laura_ciano and superintendent vincenzo_bizzarro , who have been trained to drive car , describe car 's special features and experiences driving eye-catching police vehicle . italy has road fatality rate higher than european average . officials admit speeders who are stopped by gallardo are less angry when they receive ticket .
 laura_miller the last word column on how dan_brown 's thriller the da_vinci code has put 1980 's best seller holy blood , holy grail by michael_biagent , richard_leigh and henry_lincoln back on the paperback charts . has also inspired a crop of new nonfiction books coming out this spring .
 matthew_hale , aryan leader convicted of plotting to kill federal judge_joan_humphrey_lefkow , has been held at metropolitan correctional center in chicago since his arrest in jan 2003 . he is focus of inquiry in recent killing of lefkow 's husband and mother . kathleen_robertazzo , friend who corresponds with hale , says federal agents have taken 100 of his letters .
 combined sprint and nextel communications company will be competing against much larger rivals , cingular_wireless and verizon_wireless , both of which are owned by regional bell telephone companies that have more money and more services to sell to consumers who like one-stop shopping . sprint and nextel will make formidable number 3 player in wireless market . they will have 39 million subscribers , just 7 million fewer than market leader cingular . nextel 's popularity with small businesses complements sprint 's power in consumer market . new company is expected to be led by sprint 's chief executive gary d forsee .
 federal agents investigate details of relationship between new jersey gov james_mcgreevey and golan_cipel , former adviser who , mcgreevey claims tried to extort millions of dollars by threatening to disclose extramarital affair . cipel portrays himself as victim of mcgreevey 's unwelcome advances . investigators must determine whether tone and substance of conversations between cipel 's lawyers and mcgreevey constituted shakedown attempt or just heated and high-stakes legal negotiation .
 los_angeles mayor james_k_hahn wants to freeze development in owens_valley . los_angeles dept of water and power holds 320,000 acres in valley and has worked to preserve its source of clean water , but mayor wants legally-binding measure to protect area . some criticize move as pandering to environmental vote before elections in 2005 . residents feel los_angeles has been good landlord , but regret loss of small towns in area after city drew off water in early 1900 's .
 relations between india and pakistan have soured in three months since leaders hailed their progress toward peace as irreversible and kashmiris embraced each other across disputed frontier . now two countries are lobbing accusaations against each other from infiltration of militants into disputed territory of kashmir to safety of nuclear arsenals to fate of continuing peace talks . in pakistan , there is growing impatience at what is seen as indian recalcitrance on even discussing issue of kashmir , and resentment over washington 's agreement to share nuclear technology with india . in india , leaders claim guerrilla attacks are backed by pakistan and wonder if they will detail peace negotiations .
 bush administration believes it can work with syrian leaders despite syria 's inclusion on state_department list of states that sponsor terrorism and continuing dispute over syria 's prolonged intervention in lebanon . cite syria 's cooperation against al qaeda and its vote in united_nations_security_council in favor of resolution demanding that iraq allow weapons inspectors to return or face possible military action .
 article on advantage that school districts on long_island will have as result of state legislature passing budget on time for first time in 21 years . long island school districts will receive nearly $ 2 billion in state aid , 13 percent of state total and increase of more than $ 107 million over last year .
 roughly one dozen states in middle_east , including saudi_arabia , turkey and egypt , have recently turned to international_atomic_energy_agency for help in starting their own nuclear power programs . us government and private analysts believe rush of activity is also intended to counter threat of nuclear iran . regional states each appear to be waiting to see which way iran 's nuclear standoff with un security council goes before committing themselves wholeheartedly to expensive programs .
 microsoft unveils xbox 360 model , creamy white console that is to go on sale in north_america , europe and japan by holiday season . console houses three 3.2-gigahertz ibm microprocessors that could qualify it as most powerful home computer on market . new console can act as home entertainment hub , streaming pictures , music and video from digital_cameras , portable music players and computers that run microsoft window xp . is designed to display games in wide-screen , high-definition format as well as in standard definition . sony and nintendo are preparing presentations of their coming consoles for electronic entertainment expo in los_angeles next week .
 corcoran , california , fading town in san_joaquin_valley , is legacy of col j g boswell , georgia planter of 1920 's who fled boll_weevil and made cotton fortune from dry bottom of tulare_lake , which was largest body of fresh water west of mississippi until it was drained . his descendants still control company , largest private landowner in state , but mechanization cost jobs that sustained town . photos . map . new book by journalists mark_arax and rick_wartzman about reclusive family is disputed by residents like jon_rachford , retired company engineer who says lake was dry before boswell arrived .
 iraq tells hans_blix and mohamed_elbaradei , top two united nations arms inspectors , that it has found four more empty chemical weapons warheads similar to 12 disclovered by un inspection team on jan 16 . blix and elbaradei , who are in baghdad for two days of talks , say that disclosure is sign of progress but that iraq must become more ` pro-active ' in declaring weapons .
 interactivecorp announces first-quarter results , with operating profit coming in somewhat better than analysts expected , and yet company 's shares fall $ 1.19 , to close at $ 31.06 , then drop another 5 cents in after-hours trading . profit was $ 38 million compared with loss of $ 110 million year ago . revenues were $ 1.47 billion , up 23 percent . chief executive barry_diller comments .
 death of autistic child samuel_allen , who was fatally scalded when he and his four siblings , all under age of 11 , were left alone in trenton -lrb- nj -rrb- home , raises new concerns in much-maligned state welfare system . allen 's mother alicia day , who was twice subject of abuse investigations in past six months , is arrested .
 on stage and off column . fallout from tony awards nominations begins with announcements prymate , which received no nominations , and match , which received one , will close . cast changes in other plays noted . thoroughly modern millie will close on june 20 . producers of tony_awards_telecast , seeking to broaden its appeal , reportedly sign up nicole_kidman as presenter and mary_j_blige and tony_bennett as performers .
 american warplane fires two missiles at terrorist safe house in falluja used by fighters linked to abu musab_al-zarqawi . attack kills at least 17 people . multiple explosions in area indicate_house was used as munitions store . missile strike is best indication that us forces will continue operations in falluja after sovereignty is handed over to iraqi interim government on june 30 .
 first church of christ , scientist , on central_park_west at 96th street is put up sale by church , which is consolidating with second church_of_christ , scientist , 28 blocks south . granite-clad , steeple-topped beaux-arts landmark has renowned stained-glass window by john_la_farge , hutchings-votey organ and enough room under broad barrel vaults for 2,200 worshipers .
 three car bombs explode in quick succession in and around crowded bus station in baghdad at height of morning rush hour , killing at least 43 people , injuring 88 and paralyzing one of iraq 's most important transportation networks . attack appears to be aimed at shiite arabs , underscoring sunni-led insurgency 's ability to strike , seemingly with ease , at some of most important infrastructure . bombings coincide with formal resumption of negotiations over new constitution . violence flares elsewhere in iraq . insurgents kill six iraqi soldiers driving to kirkuk . american military says one of its soldiers is killed by roadside bomb in southwest_baghdad , and another is killed in drive-by shooting in mosul .
 boston_red_sox trade shortstop nomar_garciaparra and outfielder matt_murton to chicago cubs for montreal_expos_shortstop_orlando_cabrera and minnesota twins first baseman doug_mientkiewicz in four-team deal that also sends cubs shortstop alex_gonzalez to expos . arizona diamondbacks do not trade pitcher randy_johnson as trade deadline passes .
 former pres bill clinton 's doctors report that he is awake and resting comfortably after undergoing four hours of successful surgery to remove thick band of hard scar tissue that built up as complication of his quadruple heart bypass operation last sept . he is expected to remain in hospital for 3 to 10 days , depending on how fast he recovers from operation . sen hillary_rodham_clinton and daughter_chelsea visit him in hospital .
 andrew_blum article on site-specific art installed in eight areas of new terminal 1 at pearson_international_airport in toronto . intensive selection process of art consultant elsa_cameron and airport 's art-review committee and care taken in allocating resources to each piece and each site discussed . artists on display include richard_serra , sol_lewitt , katharina_grosse , jaume_plensa , susan_schelle , mark_gomes , ingo_maurer , jonathan_borofsky , robert_coyle .
 former united_states amb richard_c_holbrooke , who negotiated 1995 dayton peace accord for bosnia , and bernard_kouchner , frenchman who once administered kosovo for united_nations , tour former yugoslavia to try to solidify peace there . urge united_states and europe to pay continued attention to region and balkan leaders to get on with meaningful reform . holbrooke cites importance of maintaining small us troop contingents in bosnia and kosovo .
 pataki administration chooses tyco_international susidiary , m / a-com , to create statewide emergency communications system for new_york , one that will need some towers installed in catskills and adirondack mountains areas , but none in protected areas . critics question bidding process and ask how tyco can build system that meets state 's requirements for only $ 1 billion when motorola bid $ 3 billion . tyco says it will use system of repeaters mounted on emergency vehicles to improve radio signal to give fire , police and other agencies across state greater coordination in responding to disasters .
 court in memphis is hearing emotional child custody dispute between jack and casey he and jerry and louise_baker , who have had custody of anna_mae he since she was born five years ago . photos . chinese couple , who have since had two other children and face deportation , say they only sought temporary foster care after he lost postgraduate stipend at university_of_memphis , where he was accused of sexual assault . bakers , who have four children and applied to mid-south_christian_services , hoping to adopt children they would raise as christians . have court order barring hes from seeing girl , whom they say would have difficult life in china . clash of cultural values underlies case , which chinese-americans and chinese officials are following closely .
 american astronomical society meeting in denver discusses unsteadiness of north star polaris . dr edward_f_guinan_of_villanova_university holds that star has brightened 10 percent in past 50 years and historical references support assertion that polaris is 2.5 times as bright as it was 2,000 years ago . position of polaris , often viewed as steadfast , has also changed dramatically .
 brazil agrees to limited inspections of new nuclear plant in resende by agents_of_international_atomic_energy_agency . odair_goncalves , brazil 's national_nuclear_commission president , holds new agreement satisfies need for agency to ascertain uranium use and still provides government with assurances that new technologies will be preserved . united states sec_of_state_colin_powell , during recent visit to brazil , expressed confidence that brazil was using nuclear plants solely for energy purposes , but stressed need to work with iaea . concerns about brazil 's history of sharing intelligence information and about possible export of uranium discussed .
 robert_whiting op-ed article finds japanese are fixated on how much attention americans are paying to seattle_mariners outfielder ichiro_suzuki as he prepares to break george_sisler 's 1920 record of 257 hits in one season . finds japanese wonder whether americans are upset that japanese player might break such a record , but fans on both sides of pacific seem to accept that record will be broken .
 desperately seeking dick_cheney * * article on difficulty of covering vice pres dick_cheney when new_york_times does not have seat on air_force two during presidential campaign . crew of about 10 reporters flies with him , representing all television networks , wire services and two or three newspapers . times normally maintains seat -lrb- paid for handsomely -rrb- on campaign planes , but cheney spokeswoman told him that other publications got their names on list before times .
 russia 's far_east is aggressively repairing and expanding its relationship with north_korea . teams of russian engineers have in recent weeks inspected cargo ports of najin , oil refinery at port and stretch of railway that crosses two countries ' short common border at tumen_river . all three facilities , built by soviet_union , have been in mothballs or lightly used in recent years . russian workers are scheduled to build first highway bridge linking north_korea and russia . will also renovate railroad south to najin , which is 25 miles from russian border .
 david_brooks op-ed column assails sen hillary_rodham_clinton for opposing dubai ports deal -- politically unpopular measure that almost all experts agree was justified on its merits . holds that clinton did not seem to mind when united_arab_emirates officials kicked in up to million dollars to bill_clinton 's presidential library , and she did not seem alarmed when dubai poured at least $ 450,000 into her family 's bank accounts through her husband 's speaking business .
 estimated one million pilgrams stand in streets around st peter 's basilica , waiting to view body of pope john_paul_ii . surge is so great that italian safety officials close down line . foreign dignitaries begin arriving to pay their respects and attend funeral on apr 8 . pres bush and wife laura visit st peter 's basilica with former presidents bush and clinton , secretary of state condoleezza_rice and bush 's chief of staff andrew h card jr . despite its size , crowd filling streets near vatican is calm . weeklong celebration of life of john_paul_ii is clearly pleasing to church officials -- even if it raises questions about whether church can sustain such fervent enthusiasm under next pope .
 man in the news profile of gen george_w_casey_jr , who replaces lt gen ricardo_sanchez as top commander in iraq , overseeing 140,000 american troops and 25,000 allied forces . career highlights . in months before iraq war , casey was one of few senior officers who raised alarms about lack of postwar planning and fought with only modest success to improve it .
 drugstore.com , kwikmed.com and other legitimate online drug marketers welcome government shutdown of 4,600 illegal online pharmacy sites and arrest of 18 people who ran them . believe reputation of legitimate online pharmacies has been undermined by rogues , which purport to offer prescriptions to customers who can not or will not get prescriptions from their own doctors and who typically pay $ 400 for drugs that would have cost $ 40 with legal prescription . only about 8 percent of america 's 150 million-drug users have bought their medications online so far this year , down from 8.6 percent in 2004 .
 william_katz , jeffrey_meyer and gary_r_jones , who were charged in fatal hazing of walter_dean_jennings at state_university_of_new_york at plattsburgh , plead guilty and agree to cooperate in prosecution of eight other fraternity brothers . hazing involved consumption of large amounts of water , which caused jennings to die of hyponatremia , condition in which sodium in blood drops to dagnerous levels .
 space shuttle columbia breaks up on re-entry to earth 's atmosphere , killing all seven astronauts aboard : col rick d husband , mission commander , capt david_m_brown , dr kalpana_chawla , cmdr william_c_mccool , lt col michael_p_anderson , dr laurel_salton_clark and col_ilan_ramon , an israeli . breakup occurs 40 miles above earth and only minutes before scheduled landing at kennedy_space_center in florida . shower of fiery debris falls across texas and louisiana . nasa will activate board of independent ouside experts , led by harold_w_gehman , to oversee parts of investigation . how large a secback the loss of columbia will pose for shuttle is difficult to assess .
 former interior_dept official j steven_griles pleads guilty to lying before senate committee about his ties to disgraced lobbyist jack_abramoff . justice dept recommends that griles receive five-month prison term and spend another five months confined to either halfway house or his home . griles was deputy to interior sec gale a norton from 2001 to 2004 . he is highest-ranking bush administration official to be convicted of crime in connection with scandal surrounding abramoff .
 theme of friendship features prominently in martha_stewart trial as mariana_pasternak , friend of stewart 's , testifies against her for second_day and two friends of douglas_faneuil_boster his testimony against stewart and her co-defendant , peter_e_bacanovic . pasternak , under cross-examination by stewart 's attorney , confesses to memory problems that might help stewart 's case .
 philadelphia restaurateur stephen_starr opens two new_york_city restaurants in chelsea . morimoto , $ 10 million , 160-seat japanese restaurant is named after its famous chef masaharu_morimoto , star of tv program iron chef . buddakan , pan-asian restaurant around corner , will open shortly after morimoto . design of both spaces discussed . starr , who is former rock promoter has hired publicity firm specializing in fashion and celebrities , and hopes to capitalize on buzz to fill somewhat cavernous spaces .
 medco health solutions study finds number of teenagers and children being prescribed antidepressants in us dropped 18 percent over last year after studies found that medicines appear to lead some to become suicidal . medco finding is at odds with information provided last week by food_and_drug_administration to its advisory committee . fda claims prescriptions of antidepressants for children and teenagers continued to rise by 7 percent this year despite growing controversy about safety of drugs .
 water is again flowing along 62-mile stretch of owens_river in eastern_california , in one of largest river restoration efforts in west , and after dry spell of nearly century . that part of river had been left mostly drained when upstream water , fed by snowmelt from sierra_nevada_mountains , was channeled 233 miles south to los_angeles . restored flow is among several long-awaited steps city is taking to help make amends for environmental consequences of its water maneuvering , most notably drying up of owens_lake , area more than three times size of manhattan . diagram .
 nbc names jim_bell as executive producer of today show , succeeding tom_touchet , who was forced out by nbc 's management , which has been checking latest morning ratings with increasing alarm . nbc counts on program to generate about $ 250 million in profits a year . also names msnbc executive phil_griffin as executive in charge of program . is expected to bring news expertise to program , which will be run day to day by bell , whose career thus far has been in sports production .
 more than 80 young muslim boys and men from around world face off in two weeks of nightly performances , reciting koran in arabic . dubai 's ruler sheik muhammed bin rashid al maktoum sponsors competition , one of most prestigious koran recitation contests in world , to encourage young muslims to understand essence of their faith . he provides equivalent of nearly $ 700,000 in prize money , including top prize of $ 70,000 . contest , dubai international holy koran award , is in its 10th year .
 eight men , including seven described as members of radical_black_liberation_army , are arrested on charges of murdering john v young , police sergeant killed by shotgun in san_francisco stationhouse on aug_29_, 1971 , and waging violent five-year battle against police and federal authorities . gunmen are identified as francisco torres of queens , ny , and herman_bell , who is serving murder sentence in new_york . others are described as lookouts , getaway drivers and participants in assault on police station and other attacks .
 united_nations_international_atomic_energy_agency expresses ` serious concern ' about iran 's nuclear program , and iran responds that it would not curtail its activities . 35 countries on governing board of iaea set sept 3 deadline for director geenral , mohamed_elbaradei , to report on whether iran is carrying out terms of resolution . elements in board 's statement fall short of what united_states and its euroepan partners had hoped for only week ago . western diplomats say they were unable to get board approval to refer issue to united_nations_security_council for possible sanctions .
 army criminal investigation command says that despite recommendations by investigators , commanders have decided not to prosecute 17 soldiers implicated in deaths of three prisoners in iraq and afghanistan in 2003 and 2004 . says one of 17 received letter of reprimand and another was discharged after investigations . issues detailed report on deaths of prisoners in us custody in iraq and afghanistan . says military has taken steps toward prosecuting some three dozen soldiers in connection with 28 confirmed or suspected homicides of detainees .
 article on demise of friends for long_island 's heritage , nonprofit preservation group that for 40 years has helped support some of island 's most prominent historic sites . trustees have voted to file for chapter 7 bankruptcy protection . group 's assets , including furnishings and artifacts it bought for museums and historic sites that are worth $ 5 to $ 10 million , will be disposed of .
 new_york_city officials , economists and businesspeople debate how republican national convention affected city 's economy . bloomberg_administration says convention drew $ 255 million during usually slow week of year . some economists say city 's figure does not adjust for losses incurred . mayor michael_r_bloomberg says convention showed world that new_york is safe , open for business and recovered from sept 11 attacks . some businesses around convention say business was bad , but others say they got unexpected end-of-season boom . broadway theaters sold 20 percent fewer tickets than in same week of 2003 . decidedly anti-republican imagine festival of arts , issues and ideas says attendance was at 80 percent to 90 percent of capacity , illustrating that protesters also spent money in city .
 syed r maswood , nuclear engineer whose home in cromwell , conn , was raided by federal agents in march , holds news conference to deny report in hartford courant that he is connected with babar ahmad , man recently arrested in london on charges of aiding terrorism . federal officials in connecticut are seeking to extradite ahmad to face charges in united_states .
 profile of and interview with doug_wilson , longtime producer and director of abc 's wide world of sports , who adjusted his priorities in 1991 when his wife , debbie , was diagnosed with cancer . wilson will offer retrospective of his 45-year career with abc sports at the irvington town hall theater to raise funds to restore mcvickar_house as irvington historical society 's new home .
 residents of 535 third avenue in manhattan , where two people died of carbon monoxide poisoning on feb 15 , they had alerted pan_am equities , property 's manager , to problems with heating system , which they say started after fire in boiler room in may . two women remain in hospital with carbon monoxide poisoning . building is owned by united_enterprises .
 robert_lipsyte article , in light of tenth anniversary of city section , profiles bashir_saleh , former engineering student from kabul who set up coffee cart on northwest corner of 43rd street and broadway a decade ago . saleh and others , including school guidance counselor martin_jacobson , author and teacher jill_nelson , south_bronx lawyer ramon_jimenez , adoptive mother myra_alperson and author eric_marcus , describe how city has changed .
 sen john_kerry denounces advertisement by liberal group moveonorg questioning pres bush 's vietname-era service in air_national_guard , move likely to increase pressure on bush to condemn recent commercial accusing kerry of lying about his war record . moveon ad accuses bush of using family connections to avoid vietnam and questions whether he met service requirements . photo . sen john_mccain has urged both candidates to denounce such ads .
 chen si , self-appointed guardian angel on china 's busy yangtze_river_bridge , has trained himself to stop the suicidal , and by his count has stopped 42 people from jumping in last_year . suicide is now leading cause of death for chinese aged 15 to 34 , but country still has no national plan for addressing issue . chen is believed to be first such volunteer in china , sign suggesting that stigma surrounding suicide has eased in recent years .
 cmdr chuck_street , los_angeles traffic-helicopter reporter , says his job is being done in by technology and radio consolidation . there are about dozen traffic reporters in los_angeles , and he is senior among them with 20 years experience . street , who provides reports to three stations , will leave job on april 1 .
 cable television networks , nearing end of talks with advertisers and agencies for sale of commercial time ahead of 2004-5 season , are likely to take in far more than they did year ago , but are unlikely to exceed last year 's total by attention-grabbing $ 1 billion . analysts expect cable networks to beat last year 's total in unfront market by $ 600 million to $ 800 million , for gain of 10.9 percent to 14.5 percent from sales of estimated $ 5.5 billion last year .
 united submits third request for assistance to loan board * * united_airlines submits third bid to air_transportation_stabilization_board , reportedly cutting request for federal loan guarantee to help it emerge from bankruptcy to $ 1.1 billion from $ 1.6 billion . pledges to find $ 500 million from lender not protected by guarantee and keep $ 1.5 billion in cash on hand during term of loan , which it offers to cut to five years . treasury sec john w snow rejects offer by under sec brian_c_roseboro , one of two board members who voted against united 's previous bid , to resign from board .
 jay_garner , american overseer in iraq , makes emotional return to northern iraq 12 years after commanding relief mission that saved lives of thousands of kurds who had broken with saddam_hussein 's government . receives friendly welcome in sulaimaniya . hails kurdish self-rule in northern iraq as example for rest of iraq . plays down reports of hundreds of arabs being expelled from their homes by kurds and frustration some american military commanders have expressed with conduct of some kurdish forces .
 article looks at extravagance of modern weddings and specialized tv programming devoted to them . media and internet encourage every bride to strive for something unique . average american couple spends $ 22,300 on wedding , but in new_york_city and washington average is $ 35,000 , and real costs closer to $ 50,000 . destination weddings are fastest growing segment of $ 50 billion bridal industry . average 2.3 million weddings are performed every year , but number of wedding planners has risen 25 percent to 7,000 in just past 18 months .
 salim ahmed hamdan , yemini charged with conspiring to commit terrorism , is first of 585 people now detained at guantanamo_bay navy base , cuba , to appear before united_states military tribunal , preliminary hearing . has admitted he was driver for osama bin laden in afghanistan , but denied he was involved with al_qaeda or terrorism . his military lawyer challenges suitablity of tribunal members , including presiding officer col peter_e_brownback_iii .
 city council_transportation_committee_hearing_on_metropolitan_transportation_authority takes critical tone as committee members demand reasons why safety measures suggested after sept 11 attacks have not been implemented . $ 212 million contract with lockheed_martin_corp , which is one of few plans mta will discuss , is also scrutinized . mta says that specific plans can not be discussed because revealing them could jeopardize public safety .
 white zimbabwean farmers fleeing political and economic turmoil at home are relocating to zambia . white zimbabweans see zambia as law-abiding and moderate land of racial harmony . 60 percent of the land is arable , but only 10 percent is actively farmed . zambia has only 450 commercial farmers , including about 140 newcomers from zimbabwe . zambia hopes influx of prosperous white farmers will breathe new life into moribund farm economy , which has been mired at rake-and-hoe level since mid-1970 ` s , and spur growth of black-owned commercial farms .
 article on project rebirth , nonprofit organization begun by documentary filmmaker jim_whitaker which has been taking aerial photographs of world trade center site since shortly after terrorist attacks . three cameras were set up in spring_of 2002 , each taking one shot every five minutes , round the clock . three more cameras were added months later . www.projectrebirth.org , web site produced with alfred_p_sloan_foundation and aol , opens today for public viewing .
 britain 's poet laureate , andrew_motion , is being called on to write commemorative poem about prince charles 's impending marriage to camilla_parker_bowles . poem is not expected to mention pre-wedding mishaps that have filled britons with unbecoming schadendreude . poem will be read on apr_9 , day of wedding . since his appointment in 1999 , he has written poems on 50th anniversary of queen elizabeth_ii 's coronation , on death of princess margaret , and on 21st birthday of prince william .
 michael_cooper news analysis column discusses new_york state budget talks , open to media and other state officials for first time . governor george_e_pataki , assembly speaker sheldon_silver and senate majority leader joseph_l_bruno are caught between wanting to pass first on-time budget in 20 years and to pass budget that satisfies all of state 's needs .
 biggest debate at walt_disney_co 's annual meeting in philadelphia will not be over whether comcast_corp will own company but whether michael_d_eisner , chairman and chief executive , will be allowed to keep both titles . philadelphia is comcast 's hometown , and almost all of its top management is at long-planned corporate retreat in phoenix . comcast 's bid for disney is now worth $ 23.35 a share , while disney shares are trading at $ 26.76 .
 aon_corp and chief executive patrick_g_ryan , powerful chicago figure who parlayed dozens of acquisitions into one of world 's largest insurance brokers , is new subject of investigation by new_york atty gen eliot spitzer . photos . aon and marsh_&_mclennan , spitzer 's recent target , together control more than 70 percent of domestic corporate insurance market as gatekeepers for insurers selling policies to businesses .
 suffolk county executive steve_levy and southampton town supervisor patrick_heaney announce plan to jointly develop 588-acre commercial and industrial park at county-owned gabreski_airport . say master plan expected to be finished by mid-may calls for 14 lots and about 350,000 square feet of industrial space on west side of airport which , if fully leased , could bring 600 to 900 new jobs to long_island .
 new_jersey_state_sen_wayne_r_bryant is subject of inquiries by state , federal and senate investigators . they are looking into his holding four government jobs at once and placing relatives on public payroll . investigators are also examining whether bryant steered millions of dollars in state grants to university_of_medicine and dentistry of new jersey in exchange for paid no-show position . bryant is criticized for applying for public pensions that could pay him more than $ 83,000 annually .
 franklin_c_miller , national security official who worked alongside richard_a_clarke on sept_11_, 2001 , is disputing elements of clarke 's account of events in white_house situation room on day of terrorist attack . says conversations in clarke 's book against all enemies do not match his recollection of events . says he is not accusing clarke of fabrication , merely that events were moving so quickly and memories have become blurred .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column on plight of african women aided by reproductive health for refugees consortium , which is losing bush administration funding because member charity is linked to abortions in china . notes consortium seeks to prevent pregnancy and childbirth complications that kill 250,000 african women each year . holds five maria_stopes_international_clinics he visited in kenya are lifelines for destitute girls and women . scores funds cutoff by bush ideologues .
 thousands of shiite men were splattering streets with their blood in shiite ritual marking ashura , making holy city of karbala , iraq , chaotic even before mortar attack killed at least 85 people . observance was first in over 25 years in which shiites were allowed to mutilate themselves publicly . security agents say record-setting crowds , estimated at over one million people , made city target . sunni muslims also observe ashura , but day has special significance for shiites .
 museum of american_financial_history , 15-year-old affiliate of smithsonian institution housed in standard oil building in lower manhattan , exhibits stock certificates bearing names like enron , worldcom and imclone , being true to its mission to show follies as well as accomplishments of capitalism . most popular exhibits used to be about black october friday of 1929 , but now visitors are more interested in recent bankruptcies and scandals .
 hundreds of men , women and children from crime-ravaged slums pack streets of mexico city on first day of every month to pray for miracles from santa_muerte , or ` saint death , ' ghoul they have named an angel . describe santa_muerte as angel of last resort for outlaws and outcasts , people who feel abandoned by their government and disparaged by church . catholic church has condemned santa_muerte_services as devil worship . shrines to santa_muerte have been erected in public spaces all around mexico . real power behind cult comes from country 's impoverished and neglected masses .
 security council votes to end nearly 13 years of sanctions against iraq and united_states and britain win international mandate to occupy and rebuild country . france , germany and russia , principal opponents of american-led war , support measure , in significant diplomatic victory for bush administration . vote is 14-to-0 . representative for lone arab_nation_on_council , syria , does not attend . near-unanimity of vote belies early difficulties of 12-day negotiation .
 article on slow move toward gentrification of bushwick section of brooklyn , which some people see as one of latest outposts of hip young borough . opera house lofts developer mayer_schwartz , who promotes his building as being in east_williamsburg , secondhand store owner eurides_echavarria , echavarria 's landlord , morris_todras , filmmaker nelson_pena and longtime local resident emily_delgado comment .
 federal grand jury in north_carolina indicts cia contractor david_a_passaro on charges of kicking and beating afghan detainee who died next day at military base last june . prosecutors say man had voluntarily surrendered at front gate , suspected of role in rocket attacks on base . atty gen john_ashcroft announces indictment of passaro for ` brutally ' beating man , and warns us will not tolerate criminal acts against detainees .
 twenty-three afghan detainees from american_detention_center at guantanamo , cuba , are freed in kabul . one says he was well treated by americans , but others describe beatings and other mistreatment , as have three british citizens recently released from guantanamo . pentagon spokeswoman dismisses accounts of abuse as completely false . latest assertions suggest that americans maintain two-tiered jail system .
 nearly half new_york_city public elementary school children are overweight , and about one in four is obese . nationally , 15 percent of children are obese and 30 percent are overweight . hispanic children record highest obesity rate in city , 31 percent , which is attributed to several cultural factors . weight related diseases are also increasing , and hispanics again top list , with 41 percent under 40-years-old having diabetes .
 new_york police dept releases new information showing that officers stopped 508,540 individuals on city streets last year -- average of 1,393 stops per day -- often searching them for illegal weapons . number was up from 97,296 in 2002 , last time_department divulged 12 months ' worth of data . over half of those stopped last year were black . average number of people arrested per quarter as result of such stops almost doubled to 5,317 last_year , from 2,819 in 2002 . department releases statistics to city council after inquiries by council and civil rights advocates .
 rosukrenergo , secretive shell entity based in switzerland that cut deal with ukraine month ago to import natural gas , comes under heightened scrutiny by ukrainian and russian parliaments . ukrainian antimonopoly committee clears rosukrenergo to distribute natural gas inside ukraine through joint venture with naftogaz . it is unclear how profitable latest deal will be to rosukrenergo in its role of exclusive supplier of both russian and central asian natural gas to ukraine .
 new dept of homeland security rules would give border officers broad authority in many cases to bypass immigration courts and quickly deport illegal immigrants other than mexicans or canadians . on any given day , close to 300 illegal immigrants from central and south_america are apprehended by 1,500 border patrol officers in busy_mcallen , tex , sector , which includes 284 miles of rio grande and 19 south_texas counties . unknown number of others make it through . in addition to tracking illegal immigrants and drug smugglers , agents are particularly on terrorism watch . small mcallen_airport is one area of enhanced antiterrorism enforcement , with border patrol agents scrutinizing all non-american passengers .
 thousands of american babies are spending hours each week immersed in electronic media such as baby einstein and baby_bach , as well as computer ` lapware ' they play while sitting in parent 's lap . study by henry_j_kaiser family foundation finds that more than 25 percent of children under age two have television in their room , 59 percent of those aged six months to two years watch television on typical day and 42 percent watch videotape or dvd . tapes are marketed as educational but parents admit that in real world they offer respite while dinner is prepared .
 china bars popular elections for hong_kong 's chief executive in 2007 and rules out any expanded voting by general public for legislature in 2008 . decision , latest in series of moves in beijing to restrict democracy in hong_kong , draws sharp criticism from united_states and britain , which say beijing is eroding autonomy of hong_kong that it had pledged to preserve . angry democracy advocates in hong_kong promise street demonstrations . china 's leaders are tightening controls in territory after series of developments that began last july with march by 500,000 people to protest stringent internal-security legislation . china is making clear that it intends to give hong_kong 's people very junior role in decisions about how to open electoral system in future .
 tarcisio_feitosa_da_silva is director of roman_catholic_church 's pastoral land commission in para , brazil , one of amazon 's most lawless and environmentally threatened regions . american nun dorothy_stang was shot to death there in feb 2005 . feitosa has replaced her at top of death list that loggers , ranchers , miners and land speculators are known to maintain . feitosa won goldman_environmental_prize in 2006 . his photo .
 john_schwartz travel article on summer travel season . travel industry expects rise in number of americans traveling this summer but notes they will be more cost-conscious . travel industry assn of america surveys indicate substantial rise in amount of summer travel , with travelers spending just over $ 1,100 total on trips averaging 7.6 nights . expects 86 percent of travelers in us to drive to destinations . predicts 77 percent will visit friends and relatives , 73 percent will go to beach or lake and 65 percent will head to small towns or rural areas .
 peter_edidin , in word for word column , notes that abdul_qadeer_khan , father of pakistan 's atomic bomb , admitted he had shared nuclear secrets with other countries and reaped millions for doing so . says khan 's ego , his patriotism and his nation 's fear of india are reflected in brochure published in 2001 to mark 25th year of his research institution . excerpts from brochure .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column notes that prime min junichiro_koizumi of japan seemed to be in ecstatic trance during his visit to graceland with pres bush . holds that with his small circle of pals and iraq war defenders -- koizumi , tony_blair and silvio_berlusconi -- drifting off world stage , and with allies pulling back troops in iraq , bush may soon be as isolated as elvis presley was at end .
 fully loaded commuter plane nosedives seconds after taking off from charlotte , nc , killing all 21 people on board . witnesses to crash of us_airways_express flight describe seeing plane go into steep decline and rolling onto its back before striking hangar . cause of crash is not immediately clear . this is first major airline accident in united_states in nearly 14 months . federal officials note possibility that plane was overloaded .
 pres vladimir_v_putin and secretary of state_colin_l_powell , meeting in moscow , say russia and us have overcome their recent differences . powell emerges from meeting conceding that two sides failed to resolve some of most contentious issues involving future of iraq . putin 's intent to improve relations with us is evident when lower_house or parliament , at putin 's behest , votes to approve treaty in which us and russia pledge to reduce their arsenals of strategic nuclear weapons by two-thirds during next decade .
 armenians to vote in presidential election that is viewed as battle between two countries , rich and poor , that have emerged since country gained independence . armenia has highest economic growth rate of any former soviet republic , but more than fifty percent of population lives below poverty line . eight candidates are challenging pres robert_kocharian . photo . map . more than 200 observers from 25 countries monitor vote .
 article on importance of post of director of long_island region of new_york_state_department_of_environmental_conservation , which has been vacant since raymond_cowen retired at end of march . among those mentioned as possible successors are suffolk deputy county executive peter_scully , assemblyman fred_thiele , attorney kevin_law , assistant regional state parks director linda_spahr and cowen 's deputy , anthony_cava .
 american under sec for defense_douglas_j_feith , in beijing , tells chinese leaders that they should withdraw missiles aimed at taiwan , stressing that burden of reducing tensions across taiwan strait falls heavily on beijing . his comments may pour cold water on china 's hopes that united_states would intervene decisively to stop taiwan from holding referendum on cross-strait issues in tandem with its mar 20 presidential election .
 article on legal and other issues surrounding proposal by barnes_foundation to move its multibillion-dollar art collection from suburban merion to downtown philadelphia , pa . terrance_klein , lawyer for students of barnes_foundation opposing move , says staying in merion with one campus and one mission is best way to stabilize foundation 's future .
 state university of new_york at plattsburgh tries to come to terms with death of walter_dean_jennings , student who died during hazing at psi epsilon chi fraternity . frat house was owned by corporation formed in 1970 's by alumni led by kevin_e_jones , who is charged with misdemeanors in case . university cancelled recognition of fraternity because of heavy drinking there . president john_b_clark warns students about joining unauthorized fraternities .
 china has declared dairy industry oen of its top agricultural priorities over next decade , benefiting dairy farmers . dairy products has been soaring since 1998 , when national government began encouraging schoolchildren to drink glass of milk each day . government and corporations are pushing to develop inner mongloia into china 's new milk belt , china 's answer to wisconsin , america 's dairy state .
 environmental protection agency reports that amount of toxic chemicals released into environment increased by 5 percent in 2002 , only second time conditions grew worse since yearly toxic release inventory began in 1987 . agency officials say latest jump , following 15 percent decrease in 2001 , was generally attributable to one large copper-smelting operation in arizona . say that otherwise , overall level of toxic release would have fallen by 3 percent for 2002 .
 prosecutors rest their case against former worldcom_inc chief executive bernard_j_ebbers , who is accused of directing $ 11 billion accounting fraud . defense lawyers call their first witness , cynthia_cooper , former chief of worldcom 's internal audit department and first person in company to identify fraudulent accounting that led to its filing for bankruptcy protection , to rebut accusations .
 arab states across persian_gulf , wary about escalating confrontation between iran and west , begin publicly advertising shopping spree for new weapons and openly discussing their security concerns . american military officials say gulf_nations , normally prone to squabbling , are increasing their military cooperation and opening lines of communication to american military in area . persian gulf monarchies and sheikdoms have long relied on united_states to protect them . countries like united_arab_emirates , kuwait , oman and saudi_arabia are expected to spend up to $ 60 billion this year on military .
 conference board reports americans are now more worried about job prospects than at any time since 1993 , which could lead to lower consumer spending . actual unemployment rate fell to 5.7 percent in january , from 6 percent in december , but 59 percent of respondents believe jobs are not plentiful and 30 percent believe they are hard to get . photo . graph . us has lost more than two million jobs since march 2001 , worst slump in two decades .
 switzerland 's biggest companies are discovering pain of being based in country with strong , stable currency as they report their annual performance for 2002 . sales at ciba_specialty_chemicals fell 4 percent in swiss franc terms . sales plummeted 8 percent in swiss francs at adecco . novartis , also calculating in swiss francs , reports modest 2 percent rise . companies and analysts say look at figures in currencies where sales were generated gives brighter , and more realistic , picture . in local currency terms , ciba 's sales actually rose 3.3 percent , adecco 's dropped only 3 percent and novartis 's rose 11 percent .
 national campaign to prevent teen pregnancy reports analysis suggesting that about twenty percent of adolescents have sexual intercourse before their 15th birthdays , and one in seven of sexually experienced 14-year-old girls has been pregnant . report based on seven studies in late 1990 's focuses on 12 - to 14-year-olds . sexual activity is also correlated with risky behavior such as smoking , drinking and drug-taking .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column marks 25th anniversary of detection of aids by describing plight of nomzamo_ngubeni , 12-year-old girl in swaziland who has been orphaned by aids and now takes care of her two younger sisters . praises heroes in aids saga , like missionaries of the sacred heart working in swaziland , but says that as far as aids is concerned , last-quarter century has been shameful period for leadership in us and southern africa .
 news analysis says pres bush 's swift decision to elevate supreme court nominee judge_john_g_roberts jr from associate to chief justice_following_death_of_william_h_rehnquist may help offset criticism he is getting for administration 's slow start in dealing with hurricane katrina . says how well bush will endure political storm remains question , even as he makes second trip to hurricane-ravaged parts of mississippi and louisiana .
 fernando_bermudez , convicted of murder in 1992 based solely on testimony of five witnesses , remains in jail years after all five witnesses recanted their testimony . no gun , fingerprint or clear motive tied him to murder of raymond_blount_outside_club in greenwich_village in 1991 . five witnesses later said they had been manipulated by police and prosecutors . their recantations have had little impact in bermudez 's appeals because of prevailing wisdom of american_justice_system , which views recantations as untrustworthy . bermudez 's situation has attracted legion of supporters , including lawyers , law professors , retired detective and former federal judge . his hopes now rest on appeal before united_states_court_of_appeals . detailed examination of events since 1991 shooting of blount . timeline .
 american , iraqi and united_nations officials deadlock over selection of iraqi president , even as they appear to strike deal over most important cabinet ministers for new government that is to take over on july 1 . on one side of deadlock are united_nations envoy , lakdar_brahimi , and chief american administrator , l paul_bremer_iii , who are backing former foreign minister , adnan_pachachi . leaders of iraqi governing council support rival , sheik_ghazi_ajil_al-yawar . both men are sunnis .
 dow jones industrial average loses 63.69 points to close at 12,050.41 . standard & poor 's 500-stock index loses 13.05 points , or about 1 percent , to close at 1,374.12 . nasdaq composite index drops 27.32 , about 1.2 percent , to 2,340.68 . russell 2000 index of smaller companies drops 15.38 , or nearly 2 percent , to 760.06 . markets in japan , europe and hong_kong decline . price and yield of 10-year us_treasury note noted . economists in asia maintain that outlook for region 's economies remains sound .
 article on win-win situation involving joint acquisition of 653-acre parcel of undeveloped land in somers , one of largest remaining plots of privately owned open space in westchester_county , ny . $ 20.5 million cost is being split between new_york_city_environmental_protection_department , new_york_state_environmental_conservation_department , westchester_county and somers . property , which will be used for recreation purposes , will change name from eagle_river to angle fly preserve .
 dealbook column says mario_monti , european_commission 's chief antitrust enforcer , will decide whether to bless or veto merger of music units of sony and bertelsmann before he retires this fall . most experts expect sony-bertelsmann merger to be approved in united_states and canada . they anticipate that europe , and monti in particular , will be a problem . monti has been tough on previous music deals .
 opec meeting in doha , qatar , is not expected to change current production levels because exports from iraq , which were expected to resume by late may or early june , are likely to be delayed by at least a month . iraq is in process of selling about 10 million barrels of oil it has in storage in turkey and persian_gulf countries , but its ability to start regular flow of oil for export is hampered by security problems in its southern oil region , particularly vast rumaila fields .
 new_york_city_council_speaker_gifford_miller accuses both gov pataki and pres bush of cheating new_york_city out of billions of dollars , address to elected officials and labor and business leaders at city hall . contends it is time for pataki and bush to pick up their portion of bill for new_york_city 's deficit .
 judge simeon_t_lake_iii is expected to sentence former enron chief executive jeffrey_k_skilling to at least 25 years for his role in conspiracy to defraud enron investors . sentence could possibly be longest ever given to white-collar criminal . shows how strict federal guidelines have become in wake of recent large-scale frauds at companies . enron 's co-founder kenneth l lay was convicted in case but conviction was vacated last week after his death in july . former chief financial officer andrew_s_fastow was sentenced to 6 years after agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors .
 joey_gay , new owner of pips_comedy_club in sheepshead_bay , brooklyn , faces formidable challenge as he seeks to resurrect club 's former popularity . it was once considered new_york 's comedy central , jump-starting careers of rodney_dangerfield , david_brenner and andrew_dice_clay , among many others . a-list comics such as jerry_seinfeld and george_carlin have long since stopped performing there , and its remote location makes it relatively inaccessible , especially for manhattanites . club 's history recalled .
 scope of threat facing american aircraft in iraq is staggering . defensive tactics and devices have helped united_states aircraft largely escape disaster until missile attack on helicopter that killed 16 american soldiers . american military commanders say nearly one million tons of weapons and ammunition remain at thousands of sites around iraq , and only 100 of most sensitive sites are secured around the clock . say looters have ransacked many others .
 congressional budget office predicts federal budget deficit will reach record $ 477 billion this year and accumulated deficits over next decade will total $ 1.9 trillion . graph . outlook casts new doubt on pres bush 's promise to cut deficit in half in five years , particularly if his tax cuts are made permanent . democrats charge fiscal recklessness .
 lvmh_moet_hennessy_louis_vuitton acquires real estate portfolio on 57th street between fifth and madison avenues and is helping burnish street as prime destination for high-end shopping . company has net leased for 50 years adjacent 16-story building at 598 madison avenue in addition to its 24-story flagship building at 19 east 57th street , and has purchased building on northeast_corner_of fifth avenue and 57th street . lvmh plans to install its louis_vuitton_brand at 1 east 57th street .
 julia_robert 's decision to move to creative artists agency from international_creative_management , which has represented her since 1991 , is big blow for icm , particularly because it comes on heels of other defections , including moves by actresses cameron_diaz and lucy_liu to creative artists and by director neil_jordan to wlliam_morris_agency . icm remains a top talent agency , but some hollywood executives say it has not been same since its former co-chairman , james_wiatt , left in 1999 to head william_morris and took several agents with him . economic pressures are making talent agency business trickier than ever .
 democratic presidential candidates at university_of_nevada_forum_on_health_care guarantee health insurance for all but differ on how to pay for it or how quickly it can be achieved . hillary clinton would prohibit insurers from denying coverage or charging much higher premiums to ill . john_edwards would raise taxes to help pay cost , which he estimates at $ 90 billion to $ 120 billion a year . barack obama tries to explain why he lacks detailed plan .
 mike_wallace op-ed article is hoping for some excitement , even modest differences , among party faithful at 2004 republican convention , which will be held in new_york_city . recalls 1924 democratic_national_convention , also held in new_york , when gov al_smith 's campaign to be nominee was opposed by william_gibbs_mcadoo . convention was gripped in stalement , leading to eventual nomination of john_w_davis , who lost election to republican calvin_coolidge .
 gov john_e_baldacci leads initiative to bring wireless internet service to 90 percent of maine communities that meet population threshold by 2010 and universal cellphone coverage by 2008 . says program is needed to attract businesses and residents to maine and give existing small businesses a way to expand their reach outside maine . price of broadband project is still being determined , but building enough cell towers to cover state will cost roughly $ 55 million .
 federal district judge_vaughn_walker , ruling in antitrust case brought by justice_department , says oracle can proceed with its hostile bid to acquire peoplesoft . peoplesoft president and chief executive craig_conway , in letter to employees , assures them that company will continue fight to fend off takeover . oracle extends deadline for latest of four offers , worth $ 7.7 billion , to september 24 and reportedly is weighing whether and when to raise bid .
 baseball notebook discusses new_york_yankees second baseman alfonso_soriano , whose . 228 batting average in postseason is not keeping him out of lineup . yankees first baseman nick_johnson will be benched in games 3,4 and 5 in florida , where jason_giambi will shift from designated hitter to first base . yankees third baseman aaron_boone has two errors in game 2 of world series .
 seattle police chief gil_kerlikowske has hired northeastern_university_criminal_justice prof james_alan_fox to explain why pizza deliveryman aaron_kyle_huff strolled into early-morning party three months ago and shot eight people at random , killing six before killing himself . kerlikowske hoped people who would not talk to police might talk to fox . fox will present his findings to police in about one week .
 boston scientific predicts it can raise at least $ 1 billion by spinning off portion of company to public . is considering public stock offering for 18 percent to 25 percent of businesses grouped units its endosurgery division . boston scientific 's chief financial officer lawrence c best tells analysts company is investigating whether its tax structure will allow it to sell as much as 25 percent of subsidiary without incurring too much expense .
 outpouring of mourning for pope john_paul_ii blossoms into vast religious pilgrimage as river of humanity rolls through medieval streets around st peter 's basilica to pay respects . influx of hundreds of thousands of people amazes and alarms italian and vatican officials , straining security and emergency services with three days to go before funeral . photo . maps . 88 of 183 cardinals meet but have not yet read pope 's will . some ritual details announced : bells will herald new pope in addition to sometimes-confusing white smoke . john_paul_ii will be buried in earth , as he wished , in vatican grottoes .
 arts briefing column : harry_potter author j k rowling reportedly is named winner of spain 's prince of asturias award for concord . award consists of $ 55,980 and sculpture by joan_miro . members of charlotte symphony go on strike in opposition to proposed pay cut . new canada council for arts director john_hobday asks for increase in funding and expresses concern about decline in audience for some performing arts and about number of financially unstable arts groups .
 former vice pres al gore delivers withering critique of bush administration at rally of tennessee democrats in nashville . accuses pres bush of betraying country by using sept 11 attacks as justification for invasion of iraq . says bush administration is not committed to principle but is obsessed with its re-election . says bush has trifled with loyalty and deep patriotic feelings of american people .
 baltimore_house where fire started by drug dealer killed neighborhood crusader angela_dawson , her husband carnell and their five children in 2002 has been renovated as dawson safe haven community center . financing for $ 1.5 million project came from city , state , federal and private sources . building houses computer lab and arts and crafts center .
 first report card on united_nations ' two-year-old commitment to defeat aids gives world 's countries generally low marks in their efforts to overcome ignorance about disease and provide access to prevention and treatment measures . un estimates that 42 million people are infected with hiv , half of them women , and that vast majority live in sub-saharan africa . without expanded response , un estimates that additional 45 million people will become infected with hiv by 2010 .
 american_express_co will begin pursuing partnerships with us banks that belong to visa and mastercard networks . chairman-chief executive kenneth_i_chenault says company expects to have first of these agreements signed within year . rules at visa and mastercard still prohibit member banks from issuing cards with other companies . federal appeals court ruling last week upheld_district_court 's finding in 2001 that visa 's and mastercard 's rules are anticompetitive . visa and mastercard plan to appeal ruling .
 article on osmanli_naksi ' bendi_hakkani_dergahi and its leader , shayke abdul_kerim_al-kibrisi , turkish cypriot whose legal name is aydogan fuat . parents of former stony_brook_university students kevin_malley , erdem_kahyaoglu and abir_rahman say shaykh , who they say is cult leader , recruited their sons on campus . handful of current stony brook students are also among fuat 's followers and sometimes spend weekends at his farm near sidney_center in upstate_new_york . stony brook spokesman patrick_calabria says fuat and his organization have no connection to university and that ottoman students assn , which appears to be inactive now , invited fuat to preach on campus in 2004 .
 federal prosecutors are investigating whether connecticut gov john_g_rowland 's former chief of staff peter_n_ellef orchestrated bribery scheme to steer state construction projects to a contractor . lawrence a alibozek , rowland 's deputy chief of staff from oct 1997 to july 1999 , admits in federal court in hartford that he took unspecified amount of cash and gold for steering state building contracts worth tens of millions of dollars to company that government does not identify .
 leaders of pakistan and afghanistan visit united_states and argue publicly over who is to blame for taliban resurgence in afghanistan . pres hamid_karzai of afghanistan accuses pres pervez musharraf of pakistan of failing to crack down on taliban . musharraf says karzai is ignoring problems in afghanistan . pres bush attempts to soothe tensions and present united_front_against_taliban . two leaders ' public feud increases pressure on bush adm to confront criticism of american-led effort to stabilize afghanistan . experts question whether this is possible because of weakness of afghan security forces , allegations that pakistani officials ignore taliban activity and skepticism among afghans and pakistanis about solidity of american and nato commitments to stay in afghanistan . some analysts say stabilizing afghanistan is still possible , but would require long-term us commitment to rebuilding country .
 st vincent 's hospital in greenwich_village section of manhattan plans new hospital on site of o'toole building , outpatient clinic operated by st_vincent 's across street from main hospital complex . would sell main complex to developer , using funds to help pull it out of bankruptcy . new building 's cost is estimated at $ 600 million and would take five years to build . some residents of area complain that new hospital and development would be out of scale with historic greenwich_village and require zoning changes .
 feuding texas republicans reach agreement on redrawing congressional lines , after months of partisan warfare that twice sent democratic lawmakers fleeing across state lines . speaker tom_craddick would get long-sought new republican district in midland , at expense of lubbock . agreement follows three days of feverish lobbying by house majority leader tom delay .
 connecticut 's subsidy of residential solar energy , begun in october 2004 , continues push toward renewable energy sources that began in 1990 's when state deregulated electricity . program authorizes payment of $ 5 per watt , up to maximum of $ 25,000 , to help defray cost of installing home solar electric system . contractors have completed about 40 residential systems in last year and state has authroized about 50 more for rebates .
 news analysis says republican_senate_judiciary_committee members ' criticism of atty gen alberto_r_gonzales ' testimony on his dismissal of eight us attorneys reflects pent-up republican anger not only at gonzales but at pres bush as well . many have little desire to defend bush administration on matter rooted in questions of competence and politicization of law enforcement . question now is what pres bush will do , as congress has no power to remove gonzales , and bush has repeatedly stood by his old friend .
 battle between cbs and nbc over the apprentice , new rat-race reality series on nbc featuring donald_j_trump , is developing into feud . cbs is taking several unusual steps in effort to blunt viewership of the apprentice before reality series begins on wednesday nights . among its maneuvers , cbs counter-scheduling popular hourlong dramas like csi : crime scene investigation and cold case . moves come after nbc decides to broadcast special preview edition of the apprentive on thursday , jan 8 . combatants are nbc president jeff_zucker and cbs chairman-chief executive leslie_moonves .
 article on mariane_pearl , widow of wall street journal reporter daniel_pearl . daniel_pearl was kidnapped in pakistan in january 2002 and killed . mariane_pearl , who was pregnant at time and whose son , adam , is now 16 months old , is promoting her new book , a mighty heart : the brave life and death of my husband , danny_pearl .
 profile of tenor matthew_polenzani , who will sing role of narraboth in metropolitan opera 's new production of strauss 's salome and leading tenor role of don_ottavio in new production of mozart 's don_giovanni . polenzani will make new_york recital debut tuesday at weill_recital_hall , accompanied by james_levine on piano .
 lt gen dan_halutz , israeli chief of staff , acknowledges in letter to troops that there were considerable shortcomings in military 's performance during recent war in lebanon , including areas of logistics , operations and command . prime min ehud olmert is trying to forestall pressure from parliament , opposition and disgruntled reserve soldiers who are asking for investigation by state_commission . no progress is reported in finding two kidnapped television journalists from fox_news , steve_centanni and olaf_wiig .
 arrest warrant is issued for emanuel_webb . for 1993 murder of elizabeth_gandy in bridgeport -lrb- conn -rrb- . cold case detectives in bridgeport linked web 's dna sample from national database to evidence found at crime scene . webb is being held in georgia on parole violation . served seven-year prison sentence for murder of evelyn r charity in toombs_county -lrb- ga -rrb- . webb may also be linked to at least three other murders in bridgeport .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg and cablevision chmn james_dolan are at center of most vicious battle of bloomberg mayoralty . it pits dolan , very rich man with enormous attachment to his legendary madison_square_garden , against even richer mayor whose passion to leave his mark on west side of manhattan is rivaled only by his distaste for man trying to stop him . battle between two men over whether city should help finance football stadium for new_york jets gets nastier daily and is becoming factor in 2005 mayoral race .
 brawl between detroit_pistons and indiana pacers escalates into stands , injuring nine fans at palace_of_auburn_hills in michigan . national_basketball_association suspends ben_wallace of pistons and ron_artest , stephen_jackson and jermaine_o'neal of pacers . artest is first to charge into stands , after being hit with cup of liquid thrown by fan . referee ends game , declaring pacers , ahead 97-82 with less than minute to go , victors . nba commissioner david_stern calls events ` shocking , repulsive and inexcusable ' . length of suspensions will be decided following investigation by nba and police . players could face criminal charges .
 nine gunmen in baghdad critically wound akila_al-hashemi , one of three women on iraq 's governing council . her brother says she has been threatened in recent weeks for collaborating with occupation_authority . council members have been highly critical of occupation administration in iraq for moving too slowly to train and equip security teams to guard council members and government ministers .
 official position of pres bush 's advisers is that he is too busy running country to pay attention to presidential campaign , but that has not stopped bush from making some off-the-record jokes about democratic frontrunner john_kerry in speech bush gave at annual banquet for washington 's political upper class . new hampshire holds painful memories for bush . four years ago he suffered worst moment of his political life when , against all odds , sen john_mccain won primary by 18 points .
 holiday sales on black friday , day after thanksgiving , are described as good but not spectacular . national retail federation is expecting 5.7 percent increase in overall holidays sales from 2002 level , increase from 2.1 percent gain registered last year . average consumer is expected to spend $ 671 on holiday purchases , compared with $ 648 in 2002 .
 howard dean has raised at least $ 14.1 million in fourth_quarter , bringing his total for year to almost $ 40 million . his aides say he sets one-year record for democratic fund-raising in presidential race . gen wesley_k_clark 's aides say he raised at least $ 10 million in quarter . candidates are still making last-minute appeals to donors this week .
 professors richard_sutch and susan_carter are editors of historical statistics of the united_states , expansion of previous compilations that were published by united_states_census_bureau in 1949 , 1960 and 1975 . five volume ` millennial edition ' of book is privatized version , authorized by census_bureau but published by cambridge_university_press . new edition , which sells for $ 825 , is also available online and is goldmine for scholars and students .
 article on impact that raids last july on gas stations on long_island owned by four turkish-born partners on tax evasion charges is having on long_island 's turkish community . raids and resulting tensions have cast community in harsh light . authorities say four men arrested were partners in about 40 separate companies that owned 140 gas stations and raids resulted in arrest of 50 undocumented workers , many of whom had been smuggled into us by employers , paid low wages and worked in poor conditions .
 deadly outbreak of polio has erupted in namibia . country had been free of polio for decade . world health organization says outbreak is unrelated to one that began spreading from nigeria in 2004 and is unusual in that it is striking mostly adults . most children in namibia have been vaccinated . disease has killed 7 namibians and paralyzed 33 more . panicked citizens have swarmed hospitals seeking immunization , but vaccine quickly ran out .
 twenty-five leaders of european_union , in effort to stop iran from producing nuclear bomb , offer it economic and political incentives if it suspends its production of enriched uranium . proposal , issued in statement at end of summit meeting in brussels , coincides with negotiations in paris in which iran is seeking concessions from france , germany , britain and european_union to allow it to produce enriched uranium .
 winn-dixie stores , supermarket chain in south , will cut 22,000 jobs , or 28 percent of its work force , and close 35 percent of its stores in effort to fend off rivals like wal-mart stores . winn-dixie has been operating under bankruptcy protection since february . hopes to sell 326 stores , as well as several distribution centers that it plans to shut .
 while hundreds of people gather at ground zero to pay tribute to those who died there on sept 11 , 2001 , some family members of victims avoid memorial event . rahsaan_thompson and his brother michael_prefer to remember their father capt william_harry_thompson more privately . rahsaan_thompson has never been to trade center site and both brothers shun spotlight . believe officials did not do enough to prevent attacks .
 article on possibility , in light of nearly 340,00 acres burned in san_diego area , of massive wildfires in new jersey 's pine barrens , which cover about two million acres from middlesex_county to cape may . forest service official george_brooks says that , given area 's history of large-scale fires and influx of people , pine barrens has severe potential for catastrophic fire .
 cathedral church of st john the divine will repair greek rivival building , former leake_&_watts orphan asylum , even though it stands where cathedral hopes one day to build its south transept . ground is broken on roosevelt_island for construction of 500 units of mixed-income housing flanking landmark octagon tower , originally part of new_york asylum . 14 apartments are being offered for sale at 455 central_park_west , landmark structure that was built as new_york_cancer_hospital in 1880 's .
 article compares and contrasts cultures along long_island sound and hudson_river shorelines in westchester_county , ny . 36-mile long_island sound shoreline , whose harbors are deeper than hudson and tend to attract bigger boats , has about 40 marinas and yacht clubs and 25 beaches and may generate as much as $ 1.2 billion in revenue annually from water recreation . craggy 62-mile hudson_river side has 22 marinas and boat clubs and four beaches .
 business software alliance , international_chamber_of_commerce and unice , three of most influential industry lobby groups in europe , urge european_commission to abandon its promise to make one final push to adopt single patent regime for 25 countries of european_union . call for improvement of existing patent regime run by european_patent_office in munich .
 article on popularity of reading local newspapers online among residents of westport and litchfield_county , conn . westportnow.com , web site devoted to continuous community coverage , was begun in march 2003 by former tv news and wire-service reporter gordon_joseloff . ted marks , editor and publisher , started kenttribune.com , community-news web site geared toward 10 towns in litchfield_county , in may 2002 .
 article on raritan_bay_shellfish_transplant_program , which is being cancelled this year because qpx , mysterious disease fatal to clams , has been detected in staten_island clams . bayman chuck_steidle and other clammers had been harvesting polluted clams from raritan_bay since 1987 and trucking them out to east end of long_island for cleansing in peconic_bay .
 article assesses upcoming fall broadway theater season , noting dearth of musicals . only new musical scheduled to open this fall is brooklyn : the musical by fledgling writing team of mark_schoenfeld and barri_mcpherson . next spring will see at least eight new musicals opening with several others possible . highlights of fall theater season noted .
 former new_york_stock_exchange chairman richard a grasso denounces new_york state atty gen eliot_spitzer 's case against him : that he duped his board into paying him $ 139.5 million as chairman . argues that it ` defies credibility ' that directors did not grasp his pay details . says he will file his own suit against john_s_reed , interim chairman of nyse , as well as exchange itself for damages and for $ 48 million more still owed him . will seek to recoup legal fees from exchange .
 ladan and laleh_bijani , 29-year-old iranian twins born joined at the head , die of blood loss within 90 minutes of each other , after team of surgeons at raffles_hospital in singapore work for 50 hours to separate their brains . diagram . twins had asked doctors to proceed despite warnings of peril . adoptive father says german doctors told him when girls were two that one would die in surgery , and ayatollah_ruhollah_khomeini 's advised that operation was not permissible under islam because doctors knew in advance that one twin would die .
 china 's renowned aids doctor gao yaojie , who is 80 , is under house arrest in zhengzhou to prevent her from going to washington to be honored by nonprofit group vital voices global partnership . authorities stage photo event to disprove detention but gao says by telephone that police remain outside apartment . authorities in henan are famously hostile to aids workers but nicholas_bequelin of human rights watch says gao case is alarming because it involves beijing officials . their motivation seems to be fear of embarrassment , especially if gao meets sen hillary_clinton , organization 's honorary co-chairwoman .
 brookings institution demographic survey shows that within next few years whites will be minority of population in new_york_city metropolitan region . whites have been minority in new_york_city since 1980 's , but data show trend will soon extend to metropolitan area , including parts of new_york_state , connecticut , pennsylvania and new jersey . specific demographic information about new_york_city and metropolitan area given .
 nicolai_ouroussoff critic 's notebook column on newly unveiled master plan for manhattan 's east_river esplanade . design , commissioned by department_of_city_planning_and_economic_development_corp , is collaboration among gregg_pasquarelli of shop architects , richard_rogers partnership in london and landscape architect ken_smith . city officials hope to complete esplanade within three to five years , with projected cost of $ 200 million .
 doug_wead , author and friend of pres bush , reports that he recorded phone conversations when bush turned to him for advice at beginning of national_political_career from 1998 to 2000 . says he recorded conversations because he viewed bush as historic figure , but he knew bush might regard his actions as a betrayal . has played about a dozen tapes that offer insights into bush 's thinking as he contemplated run for presidency . private bush heard on tapes sounds remarkably similar in many ways to public bush .
 jeffrey_l_bewkes is named president and chief operating officer of time_warner , in line to succeed chief executive , richard_d_parsons , who is fending off efforts by some investors to break up company . has served for last three years as parsons 's co-deputy along with don_logan , who has openly contemplated retirement for some time but will continue as consultant to company and as nonexecutive chairman of time_warner_cable .
 arrest of former ku klux klan leader edgar_ray_killen in 1964 murders of three civil rights workers in mississippi has reopened old wounds for fannie_lee_chaney and carolyn_goodman , mothers of two of victims . killen is charged with murdering james_chaney , andrew_goodman and michael_schwerner in crime that shocked conscience of country . schwerner 's parents died in 1990 's . mrs_chaney and dr goodman , clinical psychologist , have strived to keep case alive .
 governments of france , germany and britain are studying letter delivered by iran in which it pledges to suspend uranium enrichment activities temporarily in exchange for economic and political incentives . european officials say it is unclear whether iran has agreed to all conditions set out in recent talks , or has inserted new and unacceptable conditions . in spite of cautious approach of three european governments , international_atomic_energy_agency is prepared to include iran 's new pledge in its comprehensive special report on iran 's nuclear activities .
 national_transportation_safety_board investigators say that flight of plane that struck high-rise apartment building on manhattan 's upper_east side on oct 11 appeared normal until final seconds before crash that killed new_york_yankees player cory_lidle and flight instructor tyler_stanger . pilot reported to control tower that flight plan called for plane to fly up and down east_river , area where no permission is needed . considerable number of plane 's parts are recovered . other pilots say crash site is in very difficult area to maneuver .
 gov george e pataki appoints kevin_m_rampe as new chairman of lower_manhattan_development_corp to complete design guidelines for world trade center site and to coordinate redesign and construction of memorial by sept 9 , 2009 . mayor michael_r_bloomberg and pataki also name frank_sciame to convene another downtown committee to ensure that proper memorial is built within $ 500 million budget recently imposed by the state and city .
 andrea_parhamovich , 28-year-old american woman , is killed in baghdad when gunmen fire on convoy after it leaves sunni party office where she was teaching class on democracy . les campbell_of_national_democratic_institute says guards apparently fought fierce gunfight with perhaps 30 attackers . calls parhamovich driven young woman who wanted to help iraqis connect with their new government . she was hired three_months_ago , after earlier stint in baghdad . day 's other attacks in capital include three bombs at vegetable market that kill at least ten people .
 house republicans plan to move swiftly to pass legislation requiring bush administration to build 700 miles of fencing along mexican border to help stem flow of illegal immigrants into california , arizona , new mexico , and texas . legislation would also require dept of homeland security to establish operational control over all american land and sea borders . democrats criticize plan as political grandstanding before elections .
 arthur_mumphrey is cleared of rape for which he served 18 years in prison after dna test indicates that he did not sexually assault victim , 13-year-old seventh grader in conroe , tex . his younger brother charles , who is in jail on unrelated crime , confessed earlier this year to participating in rape . can not be charged , though , because statute of limitations has expired .
 property in middlebury , conn , which started as world war ii munitions plant , is bought at auction by thylan_associates for $ 3.45 million , less that half the asking price of $ 8.5 million . 29-acre property includes 278,000-square - foot building , which is largely vacant , 1,500 parking spaces , two helicopter landing pads and aircraft hangar .
 lawrence van gelder column reports on eight new members elected to american academy of arts and letters , exhibition of works by artist hendrick_goltzius at rijksmuseum in amsterdam , coming season of paul_taylor dance co at city_center , london symphony_orchestra 's three-concert visit to new_york , and michael_frayn tribute at new_york public library .
 general_electric 's former chief executive john_f_welch_jr and jack_connors , co-founder of boston advertising firm hill_holliday are exploring possibility of making offer to buy boston_globe from new_york_times_co . connors calls speculation about talks with welch ` very premature ' . times spokeswoman catherine_mathis says globe is important asset and company has taken many steps to improve its performance .
 china and south_korea , close economic partners , try to patch over sharp crisis by agreeing to discuss calmly boundaries of ancient koguryo , whose tribes ruled much of modern-day north_korea and northeastern china from 37 bc to ad 668 , when it was conquered by china 's tang dynasty . koreans see kingdom as forerunner of their nation and source of name korea . china , apparently concerned that two million ethnic koreans in northeastern china will one day support ` greater_korea , ' has begun portraying kingdom as merely chinese vassal , stirring growing anti-chinese sentiment in south_korea .
 fleetboston customers can expect easier transition than in past when fleetboston acquired more than 50 other banks over last_two_decades because_bank_of_america has one of better reputations among larger banks for customer service . american customer satisfaction index , which is affiliated with university_of_michigan_business_school , consumers ' approval of bank_of_america has risen steadily each of last three year , although that level of customer satisfaction is 5 percent below index 's rating of commercial banks overall .
 second suspect in failed plot to bomb two german trains turns himself in to police in lebanon , where suspect , jihad hamad , and his alleged accomplice , yooussef_muhammad_el-hajdib , fled immediately after police found two suitcases containing unexploded bombs on trains in dortmund and koblenz . extradition may take months . officials are disturbed by terrorist groups ' growing use of internet and by fact that suspects veered into islamic extremism after they arrived in germany .
 excerpts from new books about new_york_city : the harlem reader : a celebration of new_york 's most famous neighorhood , from the renaissance years to the 21st_century edited by herb_boyd . house by house , block by block : the rebirth of america 's urban neighborhoods by alexander_von_hoffman . soho : the rise and fall of an artists ' colony by richard_kostelanetz . and street graphics new york by barry_dawson .
 costa ricans proud of their democratic government are upset at charges that two former presidents and several other high-ranking former officials took bribes in return for steering government contracts . miguel angel_rodriguez , conservative economist elected in 1998 , allegedly took $ 1.4 million from french telephone company alcatel . photos . rafael angel calderon jr , president from 1990 to 1994 , is charged with taking $ 500,000 to steer medical equipment contract to finnish company .
 royal ahold , giant dutch-based grocer and food distributor , says it overstated its earnings by at least $ 500 million over last_two_years . chief financial officer michael_meurs and chief executive cees_van_der_hoeven will leave company once successors are named . investors bid company 's stock price down by more than 60 percent , wiping out more than $ 5 billion in market value . developments at ahold revive concerns that european accounting standards may be no better at preventing big accounting scandals than american standards . ahold says problems it has uncovered are centered maninly on promotional payments by manufacturers to ahold 's us foodservice subsidiary .
 editorial on 10th anniversary of bosnian serb massacre of more than 7,000 muslim men and boys in srebrenica , and fact that two men with ultimate responsibility remain free . says european_union troops patrolling bosnia must give priority to capturing radovan_karadzic and international_community must increase pressure on serbia to arrest ratko mladic .
 china re-emerges as world 's leading tea exporter , posing challenge to some of world 's poorest nations . china 's government has been subsidizing tea industry in last few years , causing alarm in countries that depend on growing tea , like india , sri_lanka , indonesia , bangladesh , kenya , malawi and zimbabwe . history of tea reaches back to ancient times in china . in china , after millennia of popularity , tea consumption is growing by only 2 percent a year , while tea production rises 8.7 percent . beijing sees tea industry as answer to lingering poverty and unemployment in rural areas . government is offering subsidies to industry .
 sinclair_broadcast_group , under mounting pressure from shareholders and advertisers , will show only excerpts from film criticizing sen john_kerry 's antiwar activities more than 30 years ago . photo . portions will be shown on 40 of its 65 stations as part of news program on how politically charged documentaries seek to influence voters . sinclair stock has fallen almost 17 percent in last week , burger king pulls ads for day of broadcast and shareholders ' group plans lawsuit charging management with pursuing own partisan interests .
 political memo on how new_york state 's two most prominent republicans , gov george_pataki and new_york_city mayor michael_bloomberg , are responding to attention from national_party , as convention draws near . pataki , who has prime speaking time at convention , is basking in spotlight , but bloomberg , who is making welcoming remarks on litte-watched first day , seems to be distancing himself . roles reflect history with party , personal styles and political career goals .
 rep christopher_shays and six other connecticut republicans call on gov john_g_rowland to resign in view of his admission that he took gifts from people who are subjects of federal corruption investigation . poll indicates that 63 percent of state 's residents believe rowland should resign and that 56 percent say impeachment process should begin if he refuses to step aside . rowland 's aides says he is resolute about trying to vindicate himself .
 web retailers this christmas holiday season are expected to offer more aggressive online promotions , new refinements in web merchandising and continued migration of shoppers to online options . analysts say web retailers could emerge from this holiday season with more profits than in past years . retailers are buying more ads on google and yahoo than in years past , catching consumers at point where growing number of them begin their shopping . recent jupiter survey shows 114 million online users plan to buy something online this holiday season , 6 percent rise from last year . natonal retail federation says 47 percent of consumers wil lmake at least one holiday purchase online this year , up from 36 percent three_years_ago .
 canadian dollar , which did not rise by 3 to 5 percent against american dollar as predicted by economists year ago , begins to squeeze country 's long run of export growth and factory expansion . some analysts criticize bank of canada and governor david_dodge for raising critical lending rate by 25 basis points in september and october .
 second criminal trial of former enron chief executive kenneth lay begins as jury in first trial spends first full day in deliberations . prosecutor robb_adkins , in brief opening arguments , accuses lay of repeatedly lying to banks about how he would use $ 75 million in bank loans . decision on charges of bank fraud and lying to banks will be decided by judge_simeon_lake after jury in other case renders verdict .
 two hydraulic engineers , one german and one dutch , are shot to death in drive-by attack near karbala in southern iraq . shooting , coming fast upon shooting of group of american missionaries in mosul in northern iraq , sets off spike of fear among foreign workers already on edge . american commanders warn that enemy is changing tactics , making civilians , foreign and iraqi , their main target . three iraqi policemen are killed by gunfire in mosul .
 volcker report on united_nations ' $ 64 billion oil-for-food program for iraq states that circle of political aides and fixers in russia and france made company connections , paid kickbacks and reaped benefits through contracts granted by government of saddam_hussein . says iraqi government favored france , which it considerd ` friend ' for opposing un sanctions against iraq , as well as russia .
 archbishop henri_tessier of algeria , 77 , is waiting patiently for rome to name his replacement . tessier , reflecting on ebbing of christianity from north_africa 's shores as islam spreads across europe , says he has been witness to slow death of church . there were more than 700 churches in algeria when he began his work as parish priest in 1958 , but there are only about 20 left .
 article on embraer , brazilian jet maker that is building family of four next-generation , 70-to-118-seat jets that may push company past its rival bombardier_inc by giving it lucrative aviation niche ignored by top two aircraft makers , airbus and boeing . embraer 190 , for example , is 100-seat regional jet with expanded range and comfort and feel of big airliner at fraction of its cost .
 long island journal column . joanne_belli , resident and board member , organizes cocktail party celebrating 75th anniversary of lido_beach towers , former lido_beach hotel which has been converted into luxury condominium building . more than 200 women attend political rally organized by former ms foundation president marie_wilson at state_university_of_new_york-old westbury . urges women to vote and run for office .
 robin_finn the island column on plight of licensed biologist dr robert_valenti of amagansett who has been prohibited by new_york_state_department_of_environmental_conservation from releasing 35,000 winter flounder fry that he raised into long_island sound . town of east_hampton_paid_valenti , owner of multi_aquaculture_systems , $ 19,000 to raise and release flounder .
 article on highlands trail , one of several long-distance trail systems being worked on across us , which will eventually run 160 miles from hudson_river in new_york to delaware_river in new jersey . describes hike along small section of trail designed by bob_moss , new_jersey_supervisor_of_highlands_trail_committee .
 elizabeth_weil article on minnesota_senior_federation , which sponsors eight or nine trips every year for seniors to cross border to canada to purchase prescription drugs . issue of buying cheaper prescription drugs abroad has created group of senior activists and many who left aarp after it endorsed new medicare law defected to alliance for retired americans , which grew out of afl-cio as way of encouraging retired union members to help create grass-roots campaign for more progressive agenda .
 murray chass inside baseball column discusses atlanta braves pitcher greg_maddux , who has lost all three of his starts so far this season . kansas_city_royals_rookie closer mike_macdougal has allowed no runs and two hits in six games . felipe alou has led san_francisco_giants to 10-1 start in first season as manager .
 article recounts story of javier_sanchez , 33 , as he struggles to become real father to his four-year-old son , javi , with help of parenting classes given by strive , east_harlem nonprofit group funded with city money . sanchez , 33 , dropped out of high school , became drug user and dealer , was convicted of selling drugs three times , violated parole several times , left many jobs and recently spent two months in homeless shelters . his son was placed in foster care year ago when mother , inette_baez , tested positive for drugs .
 odyssey marine exploration says it has found wreck of steamship republic , which sank in storm off georgia in october 1865 , and plans archaeological recovery . photos . map . ship was bound for new_orleans from new_york with 59 passengers and some 20,000 gold coins that may be worth up to $ 150 million . company has carried out decade-long secret hunt in deep waters southeast of savannah .
 profiles of jim_barrezueta , yana_khaimova and aarti_kashyup , recent graduates of queens_college , as they struggle to find jobs in new_york_city . khaimova , whose family emigrated from uzbekistan , has been unable to find job as human resources manager and has decided to focus on pursuing master 's degree in industrial and organizational psychology . aarti kashyap , from new_delhi , india , majored in computer science , tutors parttime at queensborough_community_college and plans to open tutoring business . barrezueta , son of ecuadorean immigrants , works as auditor for pricewaterhousecoopers .
 on stage and off column : broadway theater sales pick up slightly from usual post-labor day dip , but rumors abound over possibility that phantom of the opera may close next year . judd_hirsch and swoosie_kurtz are set to open in mark_hampton and barbara_zitwer 's paper doll at circle in the square . jennifer_westfeldt signs to make her broadway debut in wonderful town . century center for performing arts artistic director j c compton puts theater on east 15th street up for sale .
 pres bush says alan_greenspan deserves fifth term as federal_reserve chairman , in effect leaving to greenspan decision of whether to extend his long tenure , interview with financial journalists . white_house officials say bush will renominate greenspan before his current four-year term expires in june 2004 . greenspan , 77 , has been chairman since 1987 . he undergoes prostate surgery .
 connie rogers_travel article on visit to tiger leaping gorge in yunnan_province , china . gorge is doorway to three parallel rivers_national_park , world_heritage site where headwaters of yangtse , mekong and salween rivers run side by side in deep canyons within 55 miles of one another . hydrolectric dam is planned in region which , if built , will obliterate gorge and displace some 100,000 people .
 two boccie tournaments are scheduled to begin in new_york_city on sept 25 . city has run one tournament for nine years . parks dept spokeswoman carli_smith says number of women and younger participants has increased greatly in recent years . tom_mason has organized private tournament that is played on improvised courts in manhattan and brooklyn . there is also boccie scene attracting young players to floyd_ny , brooklyn bar that has indoor court .
 article on north_american_free_trade agreement 10 years after it was signed by us , canada and mexico . notes that leaders promised accord would create millions of good jobs , curb illegal immigration and raise living standards . many economists and political analysts say that while accord stimulated trade and overall growth , it also brought jarring disclocations . supporters say gains for us -- lower priced consumer goods and increased corporate earnings -- are large compared to losses . opponents say at least 500,000 manufacturing workers in us lost their jobs because of nafta . accord 's impact on goshen , ind , ciudad_acuna , mexico , and durham , ontario , noted .
 new_york_friars_club , officially friars_national_association , sues friars_club of beverly_hills over its use of friars name in association with celebrity roasts and other events . cites licensing agreement devised in 1947 , when los_angeles_club was started . los_angeles_club was acquired in 2004 by darren_schaeffer , renamed and transformed from nonprofit organization to commercial one . underlying litigation is cultural rift between two coasts .
 profile of polezhayev family of sea cliff , ny -- vladimir and wife , yelena , who are pianists , son , simon , 14 , who is student at north shore high school and plays bass , and son , anton , 28 , violinist with new_york_philharmonic . couple teach privately and have 40 students . formed long_island piano duet , which appears regularly on island .
 gov george_e_pataki 's choice of dora_irizarry for federal judgeship in brooklyn comes under harsh attack , amid disclosures that she was ` gratuitously rude ' toward lawyers during her years as trial judge and even screamed and threw objects at them . allegations against irizarry , former republican candidate for state attorney general whom white hose nominated for judgeship at urging of pataki , surface as senate opens hearings on her nomination . of 200 people pres bush nominated to become federal judges , american_bar_assn rated only three as unqualified for job , and one of them was irizarry .
 article on north salem vineyard , which started in 1965 as personal project of george_naumburg_jr in north_salem , ny , and now produces 2,000 cases of wine in average season and is westchester_county 's only commercial vineyard and winery . naumberg , 86 , retired psychiatrist , and wife , former actress and singer michelle_naumburg , grow four varieties of grapes on 13 acres .
 american and british ground forces reach outskirts of basra , iraq 's largest southern_city , which they seek to enter not with fight but by promising aid . earlier , third brigade captures bridge across euphrates_river at nasiriya after seizing tallil_air_base , opening southern approach for invading forces to rush up highway network to baghdad . in nasiriya , as at basra , allied forces avoid city centers , apparently in effort to reduce casualties . air forces strike baghdad with fusillades of cruise missiles . gen tommy_r_franks says special operations forces are active in and around baghdad , where saddam_hussein appears still in control of city and its formidable defense despite heavy bombardment of capital .
 malaria kills three children per minute worldwide and recent economic hardships in ethiopia combined with infection have translated into worst malaria epidemic since 1998 . doctors without borders , advocacy group , argues that older drugs being used by unicef in conjunction with ethiopian government not only fail to combat current strain , but create even larger problem through stimulation of gametocyte cells , which group holds speed spread of malaria . use of artemisinin cocktails discussed . world health organization holds that ethiopia 's epidemic is expected to spread to estimated 15 million of 65 million citizens .
 electronic transactions are rapidly replacing checks as way to pay for goods and services . federal reserve says number of checks written in us peaked sometime in mid-1990 ` s . it has been falling precipitously for last four years . checks are still used more often than either credit or debit cards , but declines reported recently by big banks -- as much as 10 percent from year ago -- are so steep that checks over next two decades are likely to become as prevalent as electric typewriters . checks accounted for 45 percent of all payments that were not made with cash in 2003 , down from 57 percent in 2000 . some users of electronic bill paying comment .
 article , in light of destructive rainstorms in westchester as result of four florida hurricanes , on lingering devastation wrought by september 1999 tropical storm floyd . one of floyd 's few positive results is improved county emergency service . lessons learned from floyd are that almost nothing gets rebuilt sturdily enough to withstand comparable storm and that no one recovers 100 percent of storm loss .
 marine recruiters say it is difficult to overcome steady drumbeat of miiltary casualties from iraq , punctuated by graphic televised images of urban combat . marines make up 21 percent of military personnel in iraq but have suffered 31 percent of military deaths there . marines will take unusual step for them of putting hundreds of additional recruiters on streets and offer new re-enlistment bonuses of up to $ 35,000 .
 citizen action of new_york issues study accusing nassau_county exec thomas_r_suozzi , democratic candidate for governor , of taking large campaign donations from companies that his administration hired to work for county , some under contracts that did not require competitive bidding . says from 2001 through 2005 , friends of tom_suozzi fund received at least $ 210,760 in contributions from 55 companies that were awarded $ 111 million in county contracts . group endorses suozzi rival , atty gen eliot spitzer .
 new_york_city police report breaking up drug ring that sold $ 10 bags of crack out of four apartment buildings on west 146th street in harlem . say ring operated like small corporation , providing employees with salaries , per diems and meal allowances and conducting drugs sales with efficiency of bank tellers . arrest 31 people and confiscate $ 100,000 in cash . name miguel_hernandez as leader .
 bush administration orders immediate inspection of all passenger planes of united states-based carriers after box cutters and small containers of bleach are found in two southwest_airlines jetliners . materials apparently are placed by someone who wanted to mock federal airport safety measures . fbi is questioning suspect and may be close to arrest . suspect is north_carolina college student with possible ties to airline industry . incident does not appear to be terrorist activity but homeland security department orders us to inspect all planes within 24 hours as precaution .
 per capita federal spending in alaska has grown by more than 50 percent to highest rate in country since sen ted_stevens of alaska became chairman of senate_appropriations_committee in 1997 . stevens is master at getting money for special projects . critics complain there are so many special projects that they fail to get a proper vetting by experts in government agencies and legislators pass them as favors to each other with little scrutiny .
 business software maker oracle makes $ 5.1 billion hostile takeover bid for peoplesoft , rival in enterprise application software business . bid comes on heels of peoplesoft planned acquisition of software maker j d edwards for $ 1.7 billion . oracle strategy is seen by some as intended simply to eliminate competitor , since company has stated it would migrate peoplesoft customers to its own products .
 time-warner_center_on_columbus_circle in manhattan , scheduled to open in early feb 2004 , will feature cluster of restaurants opened by star chefs . developers of project , apollo real estate advisors and related companies , are betting that restaurants will make it city 's premier dining destination . restaurateurs , including thomas_keller , jean-georges vongerichten , masa_takayama , noriyuke sugie , charlie_trotter and gray_kunz , have signed up a-list designers like adam_tihany and david_rockwell . keller had advisory role in selecting other chefs . chefs ' styles described .
 joyce_purnick column on ruling by judge_marilyn_l_o'connor of family court in monroe_county , ny , that dysfunctional , drug-addicted couple must refrain from having more children until they can take care of ones they have already produced . other has four children under age of 6 in foster_care , three of them born addicted to crack and the fourth not tested .
 animal care and control says new_york_city shelters put fewer dogs and cats to death in 2004 than in any year on record since 1890 's . says 23,684 dogs and cats were put to death , down by about 17 percent from 2003 , and by more than third compared with 10 years ago .
 white_house says pres bush will privately answer all questions posed by commission investigating sept 11 terrorist attacks even if session goes beyond one hour allowed for interview . campaign rival john_kerry had charged stonewalling , noting that bush had enough time to attend rodeo in houston this week . white_house still wants questioners limited to two chairmen .
 daniel_okrent , in public editor column , criticizes new_york_times for failing to revisit its coverage of iraqi weapons of mass destruction . holds that between sept 2002 and june 2003 , impression that saddam hussein possessed or was acquiring arsenal of wmd seemed unmistakable . notes that results of times 's internal investigation appeared on may 26 , but its editors note , full of apologies for burying stories on a10 , was on a10 .
 leading democrats voice concern that publication of former pres bill clinton 's memoir could overshadow sen john_kerry 's presidential campaign and embolden clinton 's foes to turn out and vote for pres bush . clinton , inveterate procrastinator , has been working on book for two years . has promised democratic party chairman terry_mcauliffe that it will be released well before democratic party 's national convention , which opens july 26 . clinton is still hard at work writing book , and publishers say it takes at least six weeks to produce and distribute serious book of this length . some party leaders and kerry campaign officials argue that publication in spring could help in ` pumping up the base ' . say that if clinton gets book out in time , they could hold fund-raising events at stops on his book tour .
 severe weather that buried large swath of west under snow and halted air traffic over denver gradually eases on dec 22 , allowing some passengers who had been stranded for days to move on . denver international airport reopens after being closed for 45 hours . officials say it will take days to clear backlog of displaced travelers . travelers from seattle to boston feel ripple effects of shutdown , experiencing delays and cancellations on one of busiest travel days of year .
 israeli troops stage nighttime raids in west_bank and gaza_strip , leaving five palestinian militants and one soldier dead in fiercest day of fighting in more than two weeks . israeli government and much of news media and many ordinary israelis criticize 27 air_force reserve pilots who say they would refuse to carry out bombing missions in palestinian areas . airstrikes are aimed at palestinian militants but civilians are sometimes among casualties .
 sampling of what is being offered in new jersey museums this season , including exhibit about russia 's czar nicholas and his family at newark museum , soviet photography and photo-related art at zimmerli_art_museum , sculpture by patrick_dougherty at grounds for sculpture , works by emerging and lesser-known new jersey artists at jersey_city_museum , jan_matulka retrospective at montclair_art_museum and american watercolors and drawings at princeton_university_art_museum .
 pentagon inspector gen joseph_e_schmitz report criticizes how air_force negotiated with boeing co to obtain up to 100 boeing 767 jets for use as in-flight refueling tankers . says military should not go forward with $ 20 billion deal unless major changes are made to procurement practices . says way air_force handled deal places defense_dept at high risk for paying excessive prices .
 new_york_yankees notebook discusses heightened expectations for yankees outfielder hideki_matsui by japanese media . center fielder bernie_williams is spending less time in weight room this year to loosen muscles . infielder todd_zeile returns to new_york and will play first and third base after leaving new_york mets for colorado_rockies . reliever steve_karsay expects to be ready for opening day after full recovery from back surgery .
 environmental movement -- led by activists from us -- is pushing hard to halt construction of $ 3.6 billion gas plant and offshore terminal being built in paracas , peru , asserting that plant is dangerous to country 's only marine_reserve , sanctuary for sea turtles , rare penguins and sea lions only 4.3 miles to south . environmental groups won big victory on aug 28 when export-import bank rejected $ 214 million loan , citing concerns about environment . inter-american development bank is set to vote on sept 10 on $ 75 million in additional financing that , if rejected , could place at least another $ 60 million in syndicated loans in jeopardy . peruvian government officials and operators of project say they have lined up $ 225 million in optional financing from peruvian_bank and promise to finish project .
 federal government 's $ 877 million project to create anthrax vaccine to protect americans from germ warfare is undergoing significant setbacks . vaccine is unproven in humans , manufacturer vaxgen has legal and accounting troubles , and health officials are not prepared to distribute vaccine quickly if it is needed . bush administration officials and top executives at vaxgen are confident they can fulfill their promise to inoculate 25 million americans . vaccine contract is part of $ 5.6 billion effort called project bioshield .
 last 15,000 hmong refugees in thailand are preparing to journey to united_states , move that will end one of great refugee movements in history . 127,000 hmong have already come to us , although some refugees refused to go with them , hoping to return to laos . three out of four of remaining refugees were born in thailand and are refugees from camps , not war . they have lived on grounds of buddhist_temple at saraburi since camps closed in early 1990 's . cultural orientation classes help prepare them for life in america .
 five letters comment on david_brooks july 27 op-ed column criticizing sen hillary_rodham_clinton 's proposed program to increase number of college graduates . jo ann_joseph , laura_carroll_deckman and mark_kantrowitz dispute brooks 's claim that tax credits and financing do not increase number of college graduates . nancy barell agrees with brooks . christina_simons says conservatives use ` money wo n't solve the problem ' argument when it suits their political purposes .
 analysis : latest merger boom may turn out to be boomlet . speculation was rampant on wall street last week that new wave of mergers and acquisitions would follow announcements of bank_of_america 's $ 48 billion agreement to buy fleetboston_financial and anthem 's $ 16 billion acquisition of wellpoint_health_networks . since those deals were panned and investors pummeled stocks involved , pronouncements about sweeping merger revival have become less effusive .
 murray chass inside baseball column discusses tampa_bay devil rays manager lou_piniella , who says managing one of worst franchises in majors will require patience to temper his legendary outbursts on field . montreal expos manager frank_robinson discusses problematic attitude of third baseman fernando_tatis . kansas_city_royals third baseman joe_randa understands that trade rumors are part of business .
 gretchen_morgenson column on outcome of pfizer_inc 's shareholders meeting in which more than 20 percent of shares cast opposed dana_mead and george_lorch , two members of company 's compensation committee , compared with 3 percent opposition last year . says shareholders are upset by $ 65 million that board has paid chief executive hank_mckinnell since 2001 , during which time pfizer 's stock cratered .
 robert_l_hutchings , former senior american intelligence official , says he directed his staff in 2003 to strongly resist assertions that john_r_bolton sought to make about syria 's weapons programs in congressional testimony , int . syria episode is being reviewed by senate foreign relations committee as it considers bolton 's nomination to be ambassador to united_nations .
 syrian defense min abdul-rahim murad says syria will move its military forces throughout lebanon to bekaa region near syrian border and , eventually , out of lebanon altogether . says exact timing is not set . announcement comes days after pres bush and pres jacques chirac of france both demanded syrian withdrawal from lebanon . united_nations secretary general kofi_annan urges syrians to withdraw by april . many of syria 's 14,000 soldiers in lebanon were redeployed to bekaa region last year . latest announcement is likely to affect only fraction of troops . senior lebanese and syrian officials acknowledge that even when all syrian troops leave , lebanon will still be largely controlled by syria .
 article on rise in number of jobs in major professional groups on long_island since beginning of decade , particularly lawyers and teachers . new york state labor department estimates that 1,740 new jobs for lawyers will be created by 2010 , nearly 21 percent jump during decade . fastest-growing sector overall is health care , with occupations involving diagnostics and treatment growing more than 23 percent . overall job growth is expected to exceed 11 percent . jobs for primary , secondary and special education teachers are expected to increase by 5,060 , or nearly 11 percent , this decade .
 advisers to pres bush are worried by rep katherine_harris 's interest in running for senate in florida in 2004 , fearing that she will drive state 's democrats to polls in record number because of her lead role in florida 's presidential recount in 2000 , when she was secretary of state . housing sec mel_miller , with reported white_house encouragement , says he will seriously consider reversing his earlier decision not to seek senate seat in 2004 . harris says she has not reached decision but will not do anything to undermine bush 's re-election . gov jeb_bush , president 's brother , is said to have been initially miffed by white_house effort to micromanage his state 's politics by encouraging martinez 's candidacy . harris photo .
 no outsider knows , as pres bush prepares for his second inauguration , how much attention he is paying to his predecessors ' second-term experiences . picture is rather grim . historian lewis l gould says in last 100 years there has not been one good second term . presidents have either exhausted their best ideas in their first terms and had little energy left for their last four years , or they have become overconfident and set goals they were unable to reach .
 bryan_marsal , turnaround specialist serving as chief restructuring officer for healthsouth_corp , says troubled hospital company will probably file for bankruptcy this summer in prearranged deal with its banks and bondholders . company has $ 3.3 billion of debt and missed payment of about $ 350 million on covertible bond issue on april 1 after company and former chief executive richard_m_scrushy were accused of accounting fraud by securities_and_exchange_commission . marsal says forensic accountants are going through 300,000 false bookkeeping entries to determine whether healthsouth has enough cash flow to cover its debt payments .
 at least 844 american_service members were killed in iraq in 2005 , nearly matching 2004 's total of 848 . number of american personnel wounded in iraq in 2005 was 5,557 , while total for 2004 was 7,989 . january was single bloodiest month , when 107 were killed and nearly 500 wounded as american forces worked to secure country for jan 30 elections . 427 deaths were caused by homemade bombs , mostly planted along roadsides .
 pres bush announces he has completed creation of nine-member independent commission to review pentagon 's list of proposed base closings this year . by appointing members to panel while senate is in spring recess , bush dashes any plans sen trent lott might have had to stymie process . bush 's announcement is unusual rebuke of senior senator from his own party .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg_denies_bear_stearns_&_co 's request for new round of tax breaks . bear stearns has threatened to move 1,500 employees from brooklyn -lrb- nyc -rrb- to new jersey to avoid increased occupancy costs in 2004 unless city offers investment bank subsidy package to remain in new_york . budget pundits criticize bear stearns for playing new_york against new jersey in order to reap most benefits .
 new_york state sen nicholas_a_spano , republican , is facing tough rematch with his 2004 democratic rival , andrea_stewart-cousins . she lost in 2004 by only 18 votes and has taken her campaign into heart of westchester_county , where she barely campaigned before . is crucial part of democratic party 's strategy to eat away at republican majority in state_senate .
 three white plaintiffs whose challenge to affirmative action programs at university_of_michigan and its law school will be heard by supreme_court on april 1 , describe personal cost of being rejected for admission . they are jennifer_gratz , barbara_grutter and patrick_hamacher . contend their lives would have been better had they been admitted . acknowledge that they had been relatively confident of admission and had done little to line up comparable backup choices .
 pres hugo_chavez proposes creation of ` friends of venezuela , ' group that would lead international diplomatic effort to end monthlong general strike that has crippled oil production . comments while in brazil for inauguaration of pres luiz_inacio_lula_da_silva , left-wing leader who advocates negotiated settlement to growing turbulence in venezuela . photo . chavez hopes group would come from america , europe and opec .
 john_tierney political points column asks whether pres bush 's daughter barbara snubbed yale_secret_society skull and bones or society snubbed her . discusses former democratic enemies joining to found national progress fund to woo ralph_nader 's supporters to party . notes defense sec donald_h_rumsfeld is reading jean_edward_smith 's biography grant , and pres bush is re-reading the one year bible .
 wal-mart stores will introduce partnership with major hollywood studios walt_disney , warner_brothers , paramount , sony , 20th century fox and universal to sell digital movies and television shows on its web site , becoming first traditional retailer to do so . move puts wal-mart into competition with established sites , like amazon.com , cinemanow and itunes . apple dominates online music and movie industry , leaving small piece of industry for everyone else .
 new_york_city projects that its share of federal funds for low-income housing vouchers is $ 61 million short of what is needed because housing and urban_development_dept underestimated inflation rate and cost of living in city . appeals to hud . rejection of appeal could cause city to freeze or limit number of section 8 vouchers or pay landlords less . sen charles_e_schumer says congress has given housing agencies less room for compromise following successful protest of cuts last spring .
 medallion financial_corp president andrew_m_murstein sees new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's proposal to sell 300 new taxi medallions a year for three years as boon for company , which lends money to buyers of taxi licenses . sees it spurring interest in owning cabs , despite concern that it could undercut value of existing taxi licenses . medallion price graph .
 tourism in zimbabwe has hit skids since 2000 , when squatters began occupying nation 's white-owned farms in what became wholesale seizure of commercial farmland . country 's reputation has grown increasingly ugly , especially among tourists from members of commonwealth_nations . zimbabwe 's loss has been zambia 's gain . tourists flocking to view majestic victoria falls no longer travel to town of victoria falls in zimbabwe , preferring to go across river to livingstone , zambia .
 salt lake_city and 17 other utah cities plan to build nation 's largest ultrahigh-speed digital network . $ 470 million fiber optic network would deliver data over internet to homes and businesses at speeds 100 times faster than current commercial residential offerings and offer digital television and phone services via internet . telecommunications companies are starting to complain about prospect of competing against publicly sponsored digital_network . project executive director paul_t_morris cites importance of data infrastructure .
 bush adminsitration officials turn to gathering of world 's financial ministers to help pay for rebuilding of iraq . they will seek support for debt relief for iraq from countries gathering for meeting of world_bank and international_monetary_fund . they will be fighting uphill battle because they lack stamp of approval from united_nations . some of iraq 's biggest debts are to france and russia , two nations that helped sink second un security council resolution sought by administration before invading iraq .
 committee of experts meeting in atlanta will debate whether government should pay to have 40 million americans from age 11 to 20 vaccinated with menactra , new vaccine that can provide long-lasting protection against meningococcal meningitis . menactra , manufactured by aventis_pasteur , could save estimated 3,000 lives over next decade , but vaccinating entire target population would cost $ 3.5 billion next year , more than $ 1 million a life spared , far more than health officials are normally willing to spend . committee will make recommendation to centers for disease control and prevention , which will follow its advice after menactra is licensed for sale by fda .
 steven_f_reich , counsel to connecticut_legislature 's select committee of inquiry , and james_b_mintz , committee 's chief investigator , knew little about gov john_g_rowland when they were asked to participate in investigation that resulted in rowland 's resignation . both are now conversant with minute details of ethical storms that dogged rowland virtually from when he took office in 1995 . progression of case recalled .
 conrad k_harper , only african-american member of harvard_univ 's governing board , says decision by harvard to grant 3 percent raise to its controversial president lawrence_h_summers was final straw that led to his resignation from board . says he has argued for months that summers should resign . harper 's resignation is first outward sign that harvard 's seven-member board is not united in its support of summers .
 article on comedian bob_newhart , 75 , who still makes 30 stand-up appearances a year and is appearing as guest star on desperate housewives . pbs is working on american masters documentary about newhart that will air in july . dvd of first season of the bob_newhart show , which debuted in 1972 , is being released .
 debate over supreme court nomination of judge_samuel_alito escales into full-fledged fight in senate . democrats sound alarms about his approach to law as set down in 1985 application for promotion in reagan administration . alito professed strong support for conservative legal approach to abortion , affirmative action and limits on federal power . sens harry_reid , edward_kennedy and charles_schumer issue sharp criticisms as liberal groups prepare television ads opposing confirmation , conservatives plan counter-attack and republican senators defend nominee . democrat joseph_biden dismisses alito 's explanation that he was 35 when he wrote 1985 memo .
 nbc is set to announce fall schedule in annual presentation to advertisers . will include new drama from aaron_sorkin , new comedy from head writer and star of saturday night live tina_fey and series adaptation of book and movie friday night lights . new shows are expected to star matthew_perry , amada_peet , john_lithgow , jeff_goldblum and alec_baldwin . in unusual commitment to adding new drama , nbc has ordered six series out of seven drama pilots it made during development season . has ordered only three new comedy series .
 new st thomas more church on st_john_'s_university_campus in jamaica , queens , features shrine to sept 11 terrorist attack , in which about 140 former st john 's students and relatives died . john and anita_brennan , principal donors for church 's construction , lost son , thomas_more_brennan , on sept 11 .
 arnold schwarzenegger pulled together vast coalition of dissatisfied californians from all demographic groups to win recall election that ousted gov gray davis . map . charts . one-quarter of los_angeles democrats voted to recall davis and 18 percent voted for schwarzenegger , illustrating unrest in democratic bastion . republican also won 31 percent of hispanic votes and 17 percent of black votes .
 editorial suggests there may be room for cautious optimism about middle east politics . cites dissolution of pro-syrian government in lebanon , announcement of presidential elections in egypt and new peace dynamic between israel and palestinian_authority . says that while brutal insurgency rages in iraq , year has thus far brought heartening surprises for which bush administration is entitled to claim share of credit .
 comment on earnings management reports . notes that after years of ` miracles ' of companies meeting predictions , investors seem to be realizing that extra penny of profit is not only meaningless but may also be evidence of manipulation . thomson financial study of companies in dow jones industrial average finds almost half met earnings estimates over past five years , or beat them by pennies . companies whose results came in below estimates lost 1.08 percent of value on day of announcement and 1.59 percent over five days .
 pres roh moo hyun of south_korea and prime min junichiro_koizumi of japan will hold what is expected to be tense summit meeting after months of strained relations over disputed territory and japan 's militaristic past . roh is expected to state his objections to koizumi 's visits to shrine where 14 war criminals are deified , and to urge tokyo to build separate war memorial .
 leveraged buyout firms are shifting focus from britain to europe , where potential deals abound but political , cultural and legal hurdles are higher . dominance of big british and american specialists who reigned over 1990 's boom is being challenged by local competition and complicated by depressed level of asset prices and difficulty some firms have had realizing gains from earlier deals . total value of private equity deals across europe fell to 10.8 billion euros -lrb- $ 12.24 billion -rrb- in second_quarter , down sharply from 16.3 billion euros in first_quarter and 25.1 billion euros in 2002 4th_quarter . most buyout firms have plenty of cash , but are not raising new money as quickly as before .
 prime min jean-pierre_raffarin of france floats idea of abolishing one of 11 national holidays to raise money for improved health care for elderly after last_month 's heat wave killed estimated 11,000 people , most of them elderly and isolated . government estimates that plan could yield almost $ 2 billion a year in social security contributions from those who work extra day .
 wendy moonan antiques column : christie 's south_kensington auction of mechanical music , automata , dolls and doll houses will include doll_house , 5 feet tall and 10 feet wide and packed with 19th-century furniture and dolls , made in 1877 for laurence and isaac_currie , sons of banking family who lived in minley_manor , hampshire , eng . exhibition of 65 mirrors , half lent by san_francisco-area collectors , will be highlight of san_francisco fall antiques show .
 south korean business leaders are looking to china for foreign investments and trade . nearly half of south_korea 's foreign investment went to china in 2003 , and its exports to china rose 50 percent . economists in south_korea worry that country 's economic sparkle will lose its luster as south_korea 's blue-chip companies put new investment into china . economic growth in south_korea fell by half in 2003 , to 3 percent , with northeast_asia 's foreign investment river diverted to china .
 paris hilton , photographed in demi -- pornographic poses wearing silky pink cocktail dresses and much less , is face -lrb- and body -rrb- of guess , which , as company , is getting its own makeover . guess is introducing two new store concepts : marciano chain for slightly older consumer and accessories , mall-based boutiques with only handbags , hats and small leather goods , but no clothes . company will open 9 marciano_stores in united_states in next 12 months , and 27 more accessories stores , in us and around world . 100 store openings are planned in next 12 months . stores were created by paul_marciano and his brother maurice .
 brazil takes lead in united_nations peacekeeping mission to haiti . 5,000 mostly south american troops will be under command of gen augusto_heleno_ribeiro_pereira . brazil hopes mission will boost its credibility as mediator and enhance ability of mercosur trade bloc to act on world stage . bush administration fully supports brazil 's efforts . us , france and other rich countries have pledged $ 1.3 billion in aid to haiti , which brazil says is essential to success of mission .
 new_york sen hillary_rodham_clinton vows to back winner of democratic primary race between joseph_i_lieberman and antiwar candidate ned_lamont . cites good working relationship with lieberman but says she must back party nominee . clinton move is seen as attempt to distance herself from lieberman 's staunch backing of war in iraq .
 india refuses to send peacekeeping troops to iraq in spite of considerable pressure on prime min atal bihari vajpayee to do so by bush administration . administration was hoping that india would send full army division of 17,000 or more soldiers to serve in kurdish region around mosul . war in iraq is extremely unpopular in india . it was condemned by indian parliament as american troops approached baghdad in early apr .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column contends that business world finally cracked down on one of world 's biggest ` welfare moochers , ' dragging michael_eisner out of chairman 's seat at walt_disney_co . maintains that larger question is not why disney_board allowed eisner to run company nearly into ground , it is why it has paid him $ 285 million since 1996 to do that .
 pres bush 's relationship with defense_sec_donald_h_rumsfeld seems complicated now because of scandal involving abuse of detainees in iraqi prison , but rumsfeld 's relationship with first pres bush was at one time terrible . in 1970 's and 1980 's , they were intense rivals . current pres bush said to feel enormous loyalty to rumsfeld for managing pentagon in one of country 's most perilous times . will shore up defense secretary with rare presidential visit to pentagon .
 atty gen john_ashcroft disqualifies himself from investigation into whether bush administration officials leaked name of undercover cia officer , valerie_plame , to discredit her husband , joseph_c_wilson 4th , because of his criticism of iraq policy . deputy atty gen james b comey jr will oversee probe and names us attorney patrick_j_fitzgerald to direct investigation . chicago prosecutor and comey were colleagues in new_york . democrats have demanded ashcroft remove himself from probe because of close ties to white_house officials , including karl rove , who could be implicated in illegal leak . democrats now suspect decision means probe is moving closer to key personnel . sen charles_schumer notes fitzgerald 's reputation for integrity and ability .
 government accountability office , in draft report to congress , estimates that incentives for oil and gas companies that drill in gulf_of mexico will cost government at least $ 20 billion over next 25 years . warns that $ 80 billion in revenue could be lost over same period if oil and gas companies win new lawsuit that seeks further reduction in their royalty payments .
 missouri awakens on day after new_hampshire primary to find that it too is having an election . democratic presidential rivals garner endorsements , hit airways and even show up in person for race that has opened up since exit of favorite son richard_gephardt . six other states have primaries on same day next week , but missouri has most pledged delegates , 74 , and several candidates have cause to think they can win .
 last_quarter 2002 rally in technology and telecommunications stocks does not eradicate negative three-year returns on mutual funds specializing in those sectors or market pessimism about them . telecommunications funds ' average three-year loss is 30.9 percent . they are down 40.1 percent in last year . technology funds fell average 37.4 percent over last_three_years and 42.7 percent 2002 .
 finance min john_manley says canada 's economy is growing more slowly than expected , but government will balance its budget anyway . expects gross domestic product to grow by 2.2 percent in 2003 after adjusting for inflation , down from 3.2 percent forecast in february . says unexpectedly sluggish economy in us and recent outbreaks of sars in humans and mad cow disease in cattle are holding back canada 's economy .
 article on evolution of hartford , conn , into hub of country 's reggae music market over past three decades . university of the west indies anthropology prof kingsley_stewart , who specializes in dance hall culture , says it is common for hundreds and even thousands of dance hall and reggae enthusiasts to make long trips from east coast cities to hartford to attend events .
 arts briefing column . m night shyamalan movie the village is weekend 's top-grossing movie , earning $ 50.8 million in its first_three_days . other film rankings and earnings noted . rare audio and television recordings by late singer-actor bobby_darin will be released in cd / dvd package on september 14 . kevin_spacey is to star as darin in film beyond the sea : the bobby_darin_story , opening on november 26 .
 labor leaders from around country march with several thousand grocery workers through streets of beverly_hills , calif , backing call for one-day walkouts at other stores nationally . strike , which is largely over health care benefits , has cost struck chains at least $ 500 million , according to estimates of market analysts . negotiations between chains and united_food_and_commercial_workers_union , which were suspended dec 7 , are scheduled to resume with federal mediator peter_j_hurtgen . comments from people on both sides of dispute .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column holds that pres bush has been startingly passive as north_korea has expanded its nuclear arsenal severalfold . says us policy toward north_korea for last_four_years has only strengthened kim jong il . says china and south_korea are doing more to weaken kim by encouraging capitalism , markets and foreign investments . cites book by bradley_martin , under the loving care of the fatherly leader .
 food and drug_administration approves alli , first officially sanctioned weight-loss drug to be sold without prescription . specialists say alli has proven track record and could help patients lose 5 percent to 10 percent of their weight . does cause side effects like diarrhea and oily stools . manufacturer , glaxosmithkline , says it plans to sell medication for $ 1 to $ 2 for day 's dose .
 occupational safety and health_administration attributes collapse of parking garage under construction at tropicana_casino and resort in atlantic_city in october 2003 to intentional disregard or plain indifference by fabi_construction , one of main subcontractors , and serious violations by three other companies . fines fabi $ 98,500 . fines keating_building_corp , general contractor , mitchell bar placement , which installed reinforcing steel , and site blauvelt engineers $ 7,000 each . four workers died in accident , and 20 were injured . photo . diagram .
 news analysis of how us , european_union , russia and united_nations may deal with new political reality now that hamas has won palestinian legislative elections . says that as long as hamas remains committed to destruction of israel , quartet may try to postpone day of hamas takeover and support pres mahmoud_abbas , who leads fatah as ` real ' palestinian power , at least until region is stabilized . says stumbling block may be within israel itself , as ehud olmert tries to win election and does not want to appear soft .
 showdown is brewing between jesse_james_hardy and state of florida . hardy has refused state 's offer of $ 4.5 million for his 160 acres of scrubland that state wants as part of $ 8 billion plan to restore natural flow of rainwater from lake_okeechobee_south_through_everglades . gov jeb bush has directed state environmental protection dept to condemn hardy property if he refuses to sell or swap land by aug 31 .
 mci comes under attack from rival phone companies , which seize on news that it is focus of criminal investigation . one competitor criticizes mci in bankruptcy court , another challenges its government business and third makes public letters suggesting that mci 's new management team had been aware for some time of problems at center of inquiry . mci lawyers meet with investigators . michael_d_capellas , chmn and chief exec , declares ` we will do the right thing . ` says mci has ' zero-tolerance ' for wrongdoing . photo . at&_t , verizon and sbc_communications all lodge complaints against mci .
 profile of david_l_harris , 55 , who has been named first black to head major section of private law firm in new jersey -- litigation department at lowenstein_sandler . harris 's work in helping to draft 1999 child abuse and neglect suit against state 's division of youth and family services recounted .
 securities and exchange commission settles securities fraud charges with warnaco_group , apparel company , and pricewaterhousecoopers , its auditor , in connection with suspected misstatement of warnaco 's 1998 financial results . former warnaco executives linda_j_wachner , william_finkelstein and stanley_silverstein settle charges they knew 1998 figures were flawed . all of parties settle charges without admitting or denying any wrongdoing .
 article on emergence of braskem , product of recent merger of six brazilian petrochemical companies . is brazil 's fifth-largest industrial group , with 3,000 employees , 13 factories in four states and $ 3.1 billion in assets . chief executive jose_carlos_grubisich says priority is to consolidate regional leadership , and then , in second phase , take steps toward internationalization of business .
 article on escolania of montserrat , europe 's oldest boys ' choir , based in monastery in montserrat , spain , which dates to at least 13th_century . for centuries , choir required parents to give up their 9 - to 14-year-old boys for most of 11 months each year . seeking to remain viable , choir will reopen in fall with greatly relaxed rules governing student life , including eventual admission of girls .
 hollywood foreign press assn announces annual golden globe nominations , including seven to alexander_payne 's comedy sideways and six to martin_scorsese 's drama the aviator . other drama nominees are closer , hotel rwanda , finding neverland , kinsey and million dollar baby . other comedy and musical category nominees are the incredibles , the eternal sunshine of the spotless mind , ray and the phantom of the opera .
 east river plaza development moves closer to reality after six years of stalled plans and rejected proposals . home depot is to be anchor store and costco_wholesale_club is close to signing on as well . $ 300 million project will take up three blocks between 116th and 119th streets in east_harlem -lrb- nyc -rrb- from fdr to pleasant avenue .
 merger of aventis and sanofi-synthelabo will create world 's third-largest drug company based on sales and will be french controlled . eight members of aventis_board and eight members of sanofi 's board will make up new board , with sanofi 's chairman and chief executive jean-francois_dehecq running combined company and casting crucial 17th vote .
 pat jordan article on increasing number of baseball ` flamethrowers , ' pitchers who can throw the fastball at 100 miles per hour . while there are a number of pitchers who can throw closed to 100 miles per hour , there are still only 10 or so who can break 100 . difficulties of hitting a ball thrown that fast noted . comment on some fastball pitchers : bobby_jenks , minor league player who has thrown 100 miles an hour , kerry wood of chicago cubs , billy_wagner of houston_astros and cleveland indians legendary hurler bob_feller , whose fastball was timed against motorcycle .
 westinghouse_electric_corp plans bid to build four huge nuclear reactors in china backed by nearly $ 5 billion in united_states export-import bank aid . aid stirs objections because it is far larger than anything bank has offered before , benefits british government , which owns westinghouse through bnfl , and would cost about $ 1 million per job to spur employment in us . critics , including rep dennis_j_kucinich , comment . bank and company defend loan .
 congressional investigators say medicare 's helpline for information on new prescription drug plan gave 29 percent of callers wrong answers and 10 percent of callers got no answers at all . another report says doctors received accurate information on billing procedures only four percent of time . centers for medicare and medicaid services admr mark b mcclellan holds that customer service representatives must be retained . helpline is run by pearson government solutions .
 kaiser family foundatin study shows that 50 percent of advertising time on children 's shows is devoted to food and 72 percent are for candy , snacks , sugary cereals or fast food . food and advertising executives say data in study , which looked at 2,613 ads on 13 television networks from may to september of 2005 , is old and that industry has made progress since then .
 federal government 's small business innovative research program is providing generous grants for high technology entrepreneurs . defense_dept manages largest fund , with awards totaling about $ 1 billion annually given to independent companies with fewer than 500 employees . program , created 20 years ago by congress , is for targeted research aimed at developing commercially viable products . after defense_dept , largest fund is operated by national_institutes_of_health , with annual budget of $ 574 million .
 new_york_city , washington , state of new jersey and major financial institutions in manhattan and northern new jersey step up security to highest levels since 9/11 attacks in response to bush administration 's alarming new intelligence reports . for all the potential dangers , officials seek to keep threats from undermining public resolve or dealing blow to american and global economies . new_york_stock_exchange asks mayor michael_bloomberg to ring opening bell , sending defiant signal that hub of financial markets would keep trading . citigroup and prudential financial say they would be open for business as usual . employees of targeted institutions are urged to go about their business . listing of precautions in nyc , nj and washington .
 excerpts from new books relating to new_york : i got the show right here : the amazing true story of how an obscure brooklyn horn player became the last great broadway showman by cy feuer and ken_gross . america 's victory : the heroic story of a team of ordinary americans -- and how they won the greatest yacht race ever by david_w_shaw . and fraud of the century : rutherford_b_hayes , samuel_tilden and the stolen election of 1876 by roy_morris_jr .
 single shell fired from israeli tank at group of palestinian militants in northern_gaza who were firing mortars toward israel kills seven boys from extended ghaben family in strawberry field . israelis initially said five of dead were hamas fighters , but relatives says boys are innocent . israeli army is now investigating and says it regrets any harm to civilians . al aksa_martyrs brigades and popular resistance committee claim responsibility for mortar fire .
 rabbi aaron_winternitz and workers make up to 100 pounds of matzo for three days of passover in converted school bus in his backyard in spring_valley , ny . winternitz , schoolteacher , rabbi and amateur inventor , began making matzo three years ago when members of his local congregation complained about how far they had to drive to get their matzo from brooklyn bakery .
 martha_stewart living omnimedia 's magazine martha_stewart weddings wins national magazine award for general excellence among magazines with circulations of 250,000 to 500,000 . martha_stewart accepts award . kids : fun stuff to do together , also published by martha_stewart living , wins for design . the new yorker wins five awards , including prize for general excellence among magazines with circulations of one million to two million . other winners noted .
 arts briefing column : shanghai cultural bureau reportedly bans chinese-language production of eve ensler play the vagina monologues , which was to open on february 10 . shanghai drama arts theater spokesman denies government intervention . sotheby 's is set to open free exhibition of faberge eggs , valued at more than $ 90 million and bought by russian billionare viktor_vekselberg , who plans bring them back to russia .
 conrad black of hollinger_international has yet to deliver on $ 100,000 pledge to new_york_public_library made in november 2003 when black and wife barbara chaired literary benefit dinner . black spokesman says black will keep his commitment and intends to make pledge . black faces jan 18 deadline on $ 850,000 payment due to hollinger as settlement in dispute over $ 7.2 million in noncompete payments made by hollinger without board approval . securities_and_exchange_commission has moved to prevent black from selling his stake in hollinger in action related to unauthorized payments made by company to black and several associates .
 energy executives from russia and us outline two energy plans for north_korea at regional energy forum in niigata , japan . ideas -- 235-mile electric power line from vladivostok and 1,500-mile natural gas pipeline from sakhalin -- highlight russia 's future as energy exporter to northeast_asia . hydroelectric resources of russian far east seem destined to flow south to china , japan and koreas .
 william_safire op-ed column welcomes arab league 's invitation to new foreign minister appointed by iraqi_governing_council , hoshyar_zebari , to occupy iraq 's seat in arab league . says zebari should urge turkey to send peacekeeping force of 10,000 troops to iraq , which would be stationed far south of kurdish areas to avert friction .
 jeff_madrick economic scene column on congressional_budget_office 's updated forecasting methods that do not help bush administration 's argument for tax cuts . congressional budget office in march forecast that with weaker economy than expected and still another tax cut propsoed by bush , federal government would produce deficit of $ 1.8 trillion over 10 years . five different basic models of economic growth used by congressional_budget_office to make its forecasts discussed .
 benjamin_netanyahu 's resignation as israeli finance minister has not disrupted prime min ariel_sharon 's planned evacuation of gaza_strip , set to begin next week . israel 's military begins delivering letters to 9,000 jewish settlers in gaza saying they must leave before aug 15 or face eviction by military on aug 17 . netanyahu has now staked out his turf for challenging sharon as leader of dominant , right-wing likud party .
 elvis mitchell article on documentaries shown at sundance film festival that use previously shot film with subjects themselves providing material for narrative . focuses on andrew_jarecki 's film capturing the friedmans , which won grand jury prize , film balseros , directed by carlos_bosch and josep_m_domenech , robb_moss 's film the same river twice , a decade under the influence , co-directed by richard_la_gravenese and late ted_demme , and tupac : resurrection by lauren_lazin .
 most spectacular defeat in midterm elections was that of sen george_allen of virginia , who won prize for most breathtaking downfall , not only losing his senate seat to help hand power of entire body to democrats , but also tarnishing once-golden reputation in under three months . less obvious but no less real was damage to allen 's campaign manager , dick_wadhams , strategist once celebrated as next karl rove . chief democratic winners were sen charles_e_schumer and rep rahm_emanuel , top engineers of democratic takeover of congress .
 nassau_county comptroller howard_s_weitzman , new_york_city tax_comr_martha e stark and businessman william_j_mulrow are named as finalists to replace state comptroller alan g hevesi . selection panel , formed on agreement between assembly speaker sheldon_silver and gov eliot_spitzer , went against silver 's understanding that no fewer than five candidates would be selected , and that at least one would be member of state legislature . stage is now set for showdown between silver and spitzer as silver voices possibility that legislature could ignore panel 's choices altogether .
 federal regulators say california electricity and natural gas prices were driven higher because of misconduct by enron and more than 30 other energy companies during 2000-2001 energy crisis . despite findings , federal_energy_regulatory_commission signals that it does not plan to cancel any of the more than $ 40 billion in long-term power contracts signed during crisis , but does increase to $ 3.3 billion refund it contends is owed to california to compensate for electricity overcharges .
 new_york mets , with $ 120 million payroll , second largest in baseball , see their record sink to 11-14 after losing both games of doubleheader with arizona_diamondbacks . team is four games out of first place in national_league_east division , tied for second place in major leagues in errors and in fifth place in category of strikeouts . its on-base percentage is . 307 , ranking 27th among baseball 's 30 teams . combined effect of high strikeouts and low on-base percentage has been crushing .
 las vegas strip is replacing budget hotels and casinos with high-end luxury offerings in effort to cater to business travelers and deep-pocket visitors . las vegas continues attempts to redefine itself as more diversified destination . las vegas convention and visitors authority reports 38.6 million people visited in 2005 , up from 37.4 million year before and 29 million in 1995 . average cost of staying at hotel in 2005 was $ 125.38 , up from $ 113.02 in 2004 and $ 96.92 in 2000 .
 on stage and off column . comment on aftermath of musicians ' strike that shut down broadway plays last_weekend . mcc theater plans kate_robin 's intrigue with faye , to star benjamin_bratt and julianna_margulies . photo . directors for tennessee_williams festival at kennedy_center next april-july will be garry_hynes and gregory_mosher .
 james a skinner , candidate to succeed mcdonald_'s_corp 's chief executive charles_bell , who resigned because of illness , is expected to continue strategy started by chairman james_cantalupo , who died in april and was succeeded by bell . cantalupo and bell demanded better service , offered healthier foods and slowed down opening of restaurants . company 's stock has been steadily rising since early 2003 , when cantalupo look over . chairman andrew_j_mckenna says skinner had complete physical in last_30_days and his health is fine .
 delta_air_lines and northwest_airlines take steps to avoid bankruptcy protection . delta says it will sell 11 boeing 767-200 series jets to abx_air_inc for $ 190 million . also says it will reduce flights from its hub in cincinnati by 26 percent , move that will eliminate 1,000 jobs . northwest plans to resume talks in washington with aircraft_mechanics_fraternal_association , which struck airline on aug 20 .
 interview with jeffrey_mount , university_of_california , davis professor and former member of california_state_reclamation_board , discusses his concerns about health of levies around state and particularly around sacramento , calif . holds that sacramento could have hurricane disaster worse than new_orleans , if levies are not improved and housing development in risky areas is not controlled .
 delta_air_lines ' decision to cap fares and simplify prices provoked price war this week , as it becomes first big airline to join forces with low-fare players like southwest , jetblue and airtran . moves could mean fewer choices and elimiantion of flights to certain smaller cities in long run . could even force one or more airlines out of big leagues , with first casualty most likely to be us airways , which is in bankruptcy for second time in two years . american , united , continental , northwest and us airways have cut fares to levels set by delta , shaving billions of badly needed revenue at time when they have already been making deep cuts in spending and eliminating jobs .
 paul_finkelman op-ed article says baseball used in last_play_of 2004 world series belongs neither to doug_mientkiewicz , boston_red_sox first baseman who caught final out , nor to red sox , but rather to home team in game , st_louis_cardinals . proposes that mientkiewicz return ball to cardinals or send it to bud selig , commissioner of baseball , and let him decide .
 federal appeals court in washington , dc , hears arguments in five-year battle over whether environmental_protection_agency has authority to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles . plaintiffs are 12 states , a territory , 3 cities and 13 nongovernment organizations . 11 states that oppose carbon dioxide regulation and 19 industry groups have joined government 's side in case .
 state court in san_francisco is scheduled to hear arguments on motion by baker capital to dismiss case brought by wine.com on jurisdictional grounds . former wine.com president george_garrick and other investors sued baker , whose funds invested $ 17 million in wine.com in 2004 . details in complaint and court documents show how relations with backers can sour .
 library of congress inaugurates kluge_center , for which john_w_kluge_gave_library $ 60 million . kluge sees center as means of bringing thinkers together with lawmakers . its opening paves way for new $ 1 million kluge prize for lifetime intellectual achievement . first prize , which is reserved for humanities , will be awarded in fall .
 emilio azcarraga_jean , chairman of mexican_media_giant_grupo_televisa , will wed sharon fastlicht in mexico city , and couple will move to miami after honeymoon . azcarraga has long said he wants to find way to expand televisa 's reach into hispanic market in us . televisa owns 11 percent of univision_communications . because federal_communications_commission restrictions limit foreign ownership of us broadcasters to 25 percent , azcarraga would need american passport if he were to seek control of company .
 new rochelle_voters_rights_defense_fund , group set up by local naacp , files suit against new_rochelle , ny , for what they see as disenfranchisement of black voters as result of redrawing of district 3 . new lines to be used in fall council elections , approved by city_council in april , reduce overall population of blacks in district to 45 percent from roughly 54 percent .
 dr charles_miller says death of liver donor michael_hurewitz two years ago was due to severe and unusual infection and was probably not preventable . death of miller 's patient provoked inquiry that led to scathing report on postoperative care at mount_sinai_hospital , manhattan , and to new_york becoming first state to develop guidelines for treating live organ donors . miller resigned from mount_sinai but has now been named to head liver transplant program at cleveland_clinic .
 ibrahim_rugova , president of semiautonomous province of kosovo , offers to send several hundred police officers to help united_states forces in afghanistan or anywhere else they are needed , but is politely refused by bush administration . offer follows news that us has accepted offer by serbia and montenegro to send up to 1,000 combat troops and police officers to afghanistan .
 federal_reserve_board 's expected interest rate increase is expected to ease pressure on other central bankers throughout world . federal reserve move would narrow gap in interest rates between us and 12 nations using euro currency , and could stabilize dollar and take steam out of euro , one of europe 's more frustrating recent economic problems . bank of japan and other asian central banks are not expected to raise rates . chinese officials may balk at following federal_reserve 's move with their own . bank of england may feel no need to follow fed because it raised rates in november and february .
 the chechen 's story : from unrivaled guerrilla leader to the terror of russia * * article traces life of shamil_basayev , chechen terrorist leader accused of plotting attacks that have killed hundreds of people in russia this year , including more than 170 children at school in beslan . basayev , age 26 , seized passenger plane in 1991 and released 171 hostages after making his point about chechen sovereignty . he later became more radicalized , reportedly training with terrorists in afghanistan in 1994 . he had brief political role as presidential candidate in 1997 and prime minister in 1998 , but , marginalized in politics , joined forces with islamists and found access to foreigners and cash . his moral descent from nationalism to nihilism of attacks on children recounted . chronology .
 karl rove 's role as chief political adviser to pres bush puts him in center of senate inquiry into dismissal of eight us attorneys . e-mail messages released by justice_dept_show_rove and aides were involved in planning firings of several us attorneys , especially david c iglesias of new mexico and h e cummins of arkansas . rove personally recommended bush campaign aide j timothy_griffin to replace cummins . rove exercises unusually broad influence because of his closeness to bush , tenure in administration and longstanding interest in turning judiciary to right .
 recent sale by galleria 52 of duplex condominium in well-known manhattan building for $ 2.5 million less than it paid two_years_earlier has generated two suits . douglas elliman brokerage firm sues dr hilel_lewis , who runs galleria 52 , charging he cheated it out of $ 298,000 commission . stuart_podolsky , who eventually bought property , has settled his dispute with lewis . he denies he pleaded guilty in slumlord case in 1980 's .
 house in odessa , tex , where pres bush lived briefly as toddler has been boarded up to be moved to presidential museum in town . odessa and nearby midland , tex , are making competing claims for attention as bush 's hometown , even though bush lived in at least nine houses in five cities in three states before his teens .
 federal appeals panel sweeps aside lower court injunction that ordered microsoft_corp to distribute java software of sun_microsystems , but upholds second preliminary injunction by lower court that told microsoft to stop distributing its version of java technology because it probably violated sun 's copyright on software . legal experts say second opinion suggests sun has fairly strong case in its private antitrust suit against microsoft . ruling means microsoft will not be forced to include competitor 's technology in its windows operating systems for personal computers .
 congress want to define exactly what abusive tax shelters are . efforts are aimed at reining in questionable tax shelters that have deprived government of hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes in recent years . proposal to define tax shelter abuse would go to senate_finance_committee , led by max_baucus and house_ways_and_means , led by charles_b_rangel .
 at least 19 palestinians are killed and gaza_city is shuttered as fighting continues between fatah and hamas , threatening fragile unity government . israel carries out helicopter assault on hamas_command_center in retaliation for rockets launched by hamas militants at israeli town of sderot , where two women were wounded . increase in hamas attacks , perhaps intended to prompt israeli retaliation that could reunify palestinians , presents political problem for israel , under pressure to respond but aware of limited ability of military force to stop rocket fire .
 episcopal diocese of california elects rev mark h andrus as its first new bishop in 27 years . three of seven candidates were openly gay or lesbian ministers in long-term relationships , and election of one of them might have inflamed crisis over homosexuality in episcopal church . andrus , who was not one of homosexual candidates , affirms that he will continue to support full inclusion of homesexuals in church .
 labor department reports consumer price index fell 0.5 percent for second consecutive month in october , suggesting inflation is being contained by declining energy prices and gradually slowing economy . so-called core inflation , which excludes fuel and energy , rose by only 0.1 percent . industrial production grew 0.2 percent in october , less than most economists expected . manufacturing output fell 0.2 percent . hourly wages for blue - and white-collar workers outside management level were 2.8 percent higher in october than_year_earlier . price of gasoline fell 11.1 percent . price of natural gas and electricity for homeowners fell 2.5 percent .
 japan 's northern_port_city of wakkanai is evolving quickly into modern-day commercial bridge with russian island of sakhalin , 100 miles away . ferry cargo from wakkanai to sakhalin tripled last summer from previous year . last year wakkanai was japan 's top port for russian fishing boats , and japan 's largest overseas construction contracts awarded worldwide were for work in sakhalin . japan increasingly sees russia as ally in dealing with china .
 heavily armed fighters who seized school in beslan , russia , release 26 hostages , all women and children , some of them only babies . fighters continue to rebuff other entreaties and offers from negotiators , including safe passage out of city . hostage-takers are demanding withdrawal of russian forces from chechnya and release of at least 30 insurgents jailed after june attacks in neighboring ingushetia that left nearly 100 dead . terror that has stuck russia over last 10 days has convulsed country . criticism is rising over government 's reactions to deadly wave of attacks , including downing of two passenger airliners and suicide bombing outside moscow subway station .
 american international group says justice_department is probing its aig_financial_products_corp unit for possible securities law violations . believes probe involves unit 's dealings with pnc_financial_services group that enabled pnc , bank holding company , to shift $ 762 million in loans from its balance sheet . pnc agreed last year to pay $ 115 million in fine and restitution in connection with its accounting practices .
 pres bush will seek deep cuts in farm and commodity program subsidies in effort to reduce federal budget deficit . will propose firm overall limit of $ 250,000 on subsidies that can now exceed $ 1 million in some cases . new senate appropriations committee chmn thad_cochran says more than 100 farm groups are gearing up to fight cuts , but environmental working group says move would reduce payments to big agribusiness operations and open door to reform . proposals would save about $ 587 million next year and $ 5.7 billion in coming decade .
 mexico 's hypermarket chains controladora_commercial_mexicana , organizacion_soriana and grupo_gigante win battle against wal-mart stores when government regulators approve plan by retailers for joint purchasing company that they hope will strengthen their negotiating power with suppliers . three national chains have struggled to adapt since wal-mart muscled into mexico by buying cifra , country 's largest and strongest retailer seven years ago .
 connecticut is preparing for lethal injection of michael_b_ross on jan 26 , execution that would be first in state since 1960 and first in northeast , one of country 's most liberal regions , since 1963 . looming execution is renewing controversy over capital punishment , particularly because ross has decided to forgo his final appeal . two-decade-old case , which began in 1984 when ross confessed to strangling six teenage girls and two young women , reviewed .
 new_york_city transit restores service on c train and says a line will run again at nearly normal frequency , just nine days and 15 hours after fire gutted relay room at chambers street . initial estimates warned of up to five years for work . transit president lawrence g reuter credits herculean nonstop repair work . warns full service will not return for at least three months , with several years to repair or replace damaged equipment . is contrite about initial dire estimates and promises caution in future .
 new_york_city 's mad bomber recalled in light of new al qaeda plans to attack specific buildings in new_york_city surfaced in august . man known as mad bomber first struck in city in 1940 and 1941 , planting two bombs that did not explode , and resurfaced in 1951 , planting 22 bombs that did explode and several more that did not . bombs were left in crowded public places and injured 15 people . detectives eventually arrested george p metesky as bomber , and he was sent to hospital for criminally insance .
 burt_rutan , designer of innovative aircraft , and his billionaire sponsor , paul_g_allen , plan to launch aircraft that will try to reach 62 miles above earth in bid to usher in age of privately financed space travel . aircraft will be released from another aircraft at 50,000 feet . flight would also be milestone on way to winning $ 10 million ansari x prize , competition designed to spur private space race . aircraft would have to travel up to 62 miles twice in two weeks with three people aboard to win prize . rutan says those flights will be tried later . allen comments .
 david_margolick op-ed article on his meeting with abdel_aziz_rantisi , hamas leader now assassinated by israelis , a year and a half ago . says rantisi could move listener with his recital of palestinian grievances but would allow israel no right to exist . says he believed prime min ariel_sharon 's attacks on palestinian leaders would only hasten israel 's destruction .
 police in new_york and new jersey seize 675 kilograms of cocaine worth about $ 61 million and arrest five members of mexican drug gang that used house in madison , nj , to store drugs . seizure is said to be largest in morris_county and follows lengthy investigation . neighbors in quiet , upscale madison comment .
 many in new_york_city 's haitian_community_express relief over arrest of emmanuel constant for mortgage fraud . constant was head of paramilitary_group_fraph in haiti . human-rights groups accuse fraph of raping , torturing and killing thousands of loyalists of deposed haitian president jean-bertrand aristide . constant fled haiti when aristide reassumed power in 1994 . immigration authorities detained constant but decided not to deport him after he insisted haiti would put him to death . haitian court convicted constant in absentia in 2000 .
 nestle will close chocolate factory in fulton , ny , and mayor michael_k_stafford sr , former plant worker , says that company will not even discuss incentives to stay . average age of 467 plant workers is 52 , and average tenure at plant is 27 years . most employees live in fulton and will have to go elsewhere to find employment , which has increased in area over past 25 years , but in service jobs paying about half of up to $ 20 hourly manufacturing workers make . fulton has courted other chocolate manufacturers worldwide , and new industries .
 tourism officials in new_york_city are preparing to inaugurate new goodwill ambassador : cartoon bunny named miffy that stars in series of children 's books , including latest , miffy loves new_york_city ! . statistics released by nyc_&_co , city 's tourism agency , show that 35.25 million tourists visited city in 2002 , compared with 35.15 million in 2001 and 36.2 million in peak_year 2000 .
 aircraft carrier intrepid , world war ii-era ship that has been docked in new_york_city and serving as military museum for 24 years , will be moved for repairs and renovation and then return after 18 months to rebuilt pier . city and new_york state have pledged total of $ 22 million , with federal funds of $ 35.5 million , for project . diagram .
 article on development projects along entire stretch of westchester_county 's 49 miles of hudson_river waterfront , which was dominated for most of 20th century by factories and industrial plants . groups concerned about preservation along river say what happens at old general_motors site in sleepy hollow will have repercussions well beyond village 's borders . roseland property plans development calling for 1,532 condominiums or apartments , hotel , restaurants , boutique grocery , fine arts theater and possibly train station . westchester county is planning riverwalk , 46.6-mile walking trail along hudson 's shoreline . waterfront development projects in tarrytown , sleepy hollow , peekskill , irvington , ossining and other towns described .
 new_york_city civil court clerk 's office reports that number of people applying for name changes has nearly doubled citywide , to 4,233 last year from 2,449 in 1999 . clerks trace most of increase to simplication of process in late 2000 . judge must still approve change , but 95 percent of requests pass muster .
 automakers are redesigning minivans to cast off their dowdy image . among redesigned vehicles are chrysler 's dodge caravan , nissan 's quest and honda 's odyssey . general motors is preparing four minivans for next year -- from its saturn , buick , chevrolet and pontiac divisions -- with snoutlike front ends meant to resemble sport utility vehicles .
 pentagon bars french , german and russian companies from competing for $ 18.6 billion in contracts for rebuilding iraq , citing us security interests . deputy sec paul_d_wolfowitz 's directive is most substantial retaliation to date against allies that did not support bush adminstration 's war . only companies from us , iraq and 61 ` coalition partners ' will be eligible for 26 lucrative contracts . subcontractors are not affected . sen joseph_biden criticizes ` gratuitous slap ' that does nothing to protect security but alienates allies whose help is needed . rep christopher_shays concurs .
 recently passed house spending bill contains 7,000 special interest provisions . groups that track federal spending say that if senate approves it , total spending on pet projects -- which has more than doubled in last_five_years -- will reach record $ 23 billion in 2003 . every state and nearly every congressional district is recipient of one pork project or another . house majority leader tom delay says $ 820 billion measure , which includes $ 328.1 billion in discretionary spending , is fiscally responsible . notes that it represents increase of just 3 percent over last year .
 vivendi universal chief executive jean-rene fourtou is encumbered by high prices paid for acquisitions by his predecessor jean-marie_messier and tax consequences incurred during vivendi 's expansion into global media giant . fourtou 's goal of reducing company 's debt by $ 7 billion , in part by selling american entertainment assets , is unlikely to be achieved soon . analysts value vivendi 's total entertainment businesses at $ 15 billion to $ 17 billion excluding debt . most serious bidding interest appears to be for its sci-fi channel and usa network cable properties .
 number of new_york_city residents who missed more than three months of mortgage payments jumped by 20 percent in third_quarter_of 2006 compared with same period year earlier . run of missed payments is known as preforeclosure , in which banks warn homeowners of risk of foreclosure . boroughs with highest number of preforeclosures are brooklyn and queens .
 palestinian leadership moves quickly in hours after yasir_arafat 's death to fill top posts , to signal end to chaos and ambiguity that characterized his decades-long grip . mahmoud abbas , pragmatic negotiator and critic of violent uprising , is named plo chairman . confusion is still on sharp display in scenes of grief and anger throughout west_bank and gaza . arafat 's body is flown from paris to cairo to lie in state before military funeral attended by arab leaders , many of whom will not or can not attend burial in ramallah . foreign ministers of germany , france and britain and us asst sec william_burns will be present . palestinians call gravesite inside arafat 's ruined compound temporary step because israel forbids burial in jerusalem . burning tires and garbage cast bitter pall over ramallah but day passes largely in calm , grief muted by yearning for change . sec colin_powell strikes conciliatory note . speculation on potential new leaders discussed .
 liesl_schillinger article on group of women playwrights with middle_eastern roots whose plays present new look at arab identity . focuses on works of individual writers , including layla_dowlatshahi , kayhan_irani , najla said and betty_shamieh , whose play roar opens at clurman theater . collective formed in 2001 by seven men and women with goals of trying to improve us public 's view of arabs and confront terrorism discussed .
 voters in nassau and suffolk counties , ny , reject one out of three school budgets . education officials blame rise in cost of living , ballooning tax rates and , in some cases , budget increases of 10 ot 15 percent . also cite scandals in some districts . statewide , voters approved 85 percent of budgets , with long_island dragging down average .
 russell_roberts is charged with killing his 7-year-old daughter_sierra , who was placed in foster care by new_york_city and then returned to her queens home . this is second time in two weeks that birth parent is charged in death of child who was returned home after being in foster care . autopsy on sierra reveals severe internal injuries . administration for children 's services claims it received no complaints about roberts family since 2003 . neighbor claims she voiced concerns about child to children 's services .
 sens john_cornyn and robert_c_byrd report , after meeting separately with supreme_court nominee judge samuel a alito jr , that he told them he believed court may have gone too far in separating church and state . so-called gang of 14 -- seven democratic senators and seven republicans -- proclaims agreement to avert filibuster intact , at least for now . senate judiciary committee schedules confirmation hearing for jan_9 , bucking pressure from white_house to hold hearings before end of year .
 documents from northern_mariana_islands show that washington lobbyist jack_abramoff paid directly for travel to islands by several members of congress as well as two senior aides to house republican leader tom_delay , despite house rules barring such payments . delay himself made 1997 trip arranged by abramoff . islands hired abramoff in 1995 to stave off measures to improve working conditions at apparel sweatshops . detailed expenses are also given for trips by democrats james e clyburn and bennie_thompson .
 bush administration and united_nations weapons inspectors differ sharply on effort to disarm saddam_hussein and iraq . chief nuclear weapons inspector dr mohamed elbaradei and head biological and chemical weapons inspector hans_blix , supported by french pres jacques_chirac , join to call for more time , even few months , to draw conclusions regarding iraqi compliance with un disarmament demands . bush administration views discovery by un inspectors of 11 empty chemical warheads as ` troubling and serious ' piece of evidence in case for war .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry to meet in final presidential debate after two encounters that polls suggest weakened bush and boosted kerry . some republicans who had been confident of victory see debate format favoring kerry 's strengths and are concerned race may be closer than they expected . bush and kerry aides comment on candidates ' plans for debate and final phase of campaign .
 terje_roed-larson , special united_nations envoy on lebanon , cautions that commitment by syrian pres bashar al-assad to withdraw all troops from lebanon in next few months is contingent on formation of new government by lebanon 's leaders , task that is likely to be extremely difficult because of turbulent politics . syria and lebanon are to meet on april 7 to set date for withdrawal .
 pres carlos mesa , after winning congressional vote of confidence , says most bolivians support him as he presses for energy bill that spawned street blockades that imperiled his government . indigenous leader evo_morales pledges continued protests until government agrees to raise royalties on foreign energy companies to 50 percent , from 18 percent mesa favors . fissure between mesa and morales , his one-time ally , promises more standoffs that could again endanger government .
 spider-man 2 breaks box office records over fourth of july holiday_weekend , taking in $ 180 million in its first six days in theaters . anti-bush documentary fahrenheit 9/11 continues to draw huge audiences , taking in $ 21 million over four-day weekend for total of $ 60 million so far . many expensive summer movies have not performed up to expectations .
 handshake between prime min atal bihari_vajpayee of india and pres pervez_musharraf is firm and ungrudging , seeming to herald new chapter in their relationship . two leaders and their senior officials spend hour together , hoping to revive dormant peace effort . this meeting is their first in more than two years . less publicly , underlings from both sides continue to lay groundwork for what they hope will be sustained dialogue between nuclear-armed nations who have fought three wars and nearly fought fourth two years ago .
 vanguard_group 's assets under management swell during 2004 , surpassing $ 815 billion , as some $ 56.4 billion flow into company 's stock and bond mutual funds . jack_j_brennan , chairman and chief executive , rejects suggestion that company has set its sights on surpassing fidelity_investments , leading fund company , which manages $ 892 billion in mutual funds and additional $ 134 billion in trust assets . not everyone believes him , citing strategies that he has pursued that have contributed nicely to vanguard 's growth .
 house democrats , setting stage for partisan fight on reviving economy , unveil $ 136-billion stimulus plan they say would create as many as one million jobs , increase consumer spending and help states out of fiscal straits . miniority leader nancy_pelosi says democrats will now begin considering longer-range proposals . photo . plan come day before pres bush unveils much larger package costing estimated $ 600 billion over ten years and centering on elimination of tax on stock dividends .
 article on boom in business from asia for electronics and semiconductor manufacturing companies on long_island , including arrow electronics of melville , cmp_media_of_manhasset and standard_microsystems_corp of hauppauge . executives in us say they are looking to india , singapore , taiwan , south_korea and china to replace withering american and european sales .
 article profiles zahi_hawass , secretary general of egypt 's supreme_council_of_antiquities , who is in washington , dc , for lecture before opening king tut exhibition at los_angeles_county museum of art . controversy surrounding hawass 's control of tut treasures , which will bypass new_york because metropolitan museum of art refused to alter its policy of not charging extra for special exhibitions , described .
 signature theater co artistic director james_houghton announces that troupe 's 15th anniversary season will feature new and old plays by august wilson and one-man show by and starring wilson . announces deal under which time_warner will provide major support to enable theater to charge $ 15 for all tickets . other nonprofit theater leaders praise deal .
 article on fuel cell industry in connecticut . state is home to three of largest fuel cell companies in world : united_technologies in south_windsor , fuel cell energy inc of danbury and proton_energy_systems in wallingford . smaller companies are also beginning to spring up . estimated $ 300 million worth of fuel cell products have been manufactured in state . 1,400 workers , more than one-third of people working on fuel cells in north_america , are in connecticut .
 none of 15 robot vehicles completes 142-mile race in mojave desert sponsored by defense_advanced_research projects agency . vehicles had to traverse course without human intervention , for $ 1 million prize . top qualifier , carnegie_mellon_university 's sandstorm , which cost $ 3 million and was built with help of boeing and intel , was out of race within first hour after covering 7.4 miles . within four hours of start , all vehicles had crashed or been immobilized . darpa spent $ 13 million on competition , but contestants invested as much as $ 65 million .
 house votes , 323 to 95 , to permanently reduce so-called marriage penalty , extending provision that is intended to prevent married couples from paying higher rates because their combined earnings push them into higher brackets . it is not clear how measure will fare in senate . cost to treasury is estimated at $ 105 billion over 10 years .
 new_york_city metropolitan region is taking stock after heavy rains and flooding . many people in new jersey are still in shelters and without electricity . two people die in flooding , and third is reported missing . acting gov richard_j_codey has asked pres bush to declare state a national disaster area . major highways throughout region are still under water . mamaroneck , ny , is one of worst-hit towns in westchester_county , and mayor philip_trifiletti estimates damage in tens of millions of dollars .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's effort to get millions in state aid for new_york_city is complicated by fact that city 's economy is improving and bloomberg is offering tax rebates to homeowners . legislature should still give bloomberg most of $ 400 million he wants , which is far less than $ 2.7 billion he requested in 2003 .
 official end of navy bombing exercises on puerto_rican_island of vieques after more than 60 years is cause for islandwide celebration . gov sila m calderon addresses jubilant residents . had said earlier that while political pressure helped end exercises , pres bush deserves credit for keeping his word to stop them . robert f kennedy_jr , president of waterkeeper alliance who spent month in jail in 2001 for trespassing during protest on island , says navy should clean up mess it has made . says there are tens of thousands of unexploded bombs . navy claims dept of interior will do cleanup .
 defense sec donald_rumsfeld accuses syria and iran of interfering with american war effort in iraq and says he will hold syrian government accountable , first time anyone in administration has suggested confrontation could be broadened to include countries that could be aiding iraqis . senior syrian_foreign_ministry spokesman , while not denying assertion , holds rumsfeld is trying to divert attention from effects of war on iraqi civilians . there is no immediate response from iran .
 people known as hummers , who hear persistent hum in their ears without recognizable source , are subject of several studies trying to uncover mystery of sound . dr james_kelly , university_of_new_mexico ear specialist , holds that hum these people perceive is low-frequency phenomenon and not attributable to hearing disorders that generally produce high frequency noise . cases in kokomo -lrb- indiana -rrb- and taos -lrb- new mexico -rrb- reported are discussed . phil_ciofalo 's unexplained hum at home in new mexico debated . critics of hummers , such as gregory_speis , university_of_new_mexico senior electronic technician , hold such a sound does not exist .
 witnesses tell independent commission investigating sept 11 terrorist attacks that pres bush was warned repeatedly about threats , mostly overseas . richard a clarke , former white_house counterterrorism director , depicts first months of bush administration as time of indecision and inaction . pres bush is expected to defend his conduct when he is questioned in private by commission . bush campaign fears testimony will shift focus from pres bush 's prosecution of war on terrorism , which is held to be his strongpoint .
 viacom 's chief executive sumner m redstone and co-presidents tom_freston and leslie_moonves received total compensation in 2004 valued at about $ 52 million to $ 56 million each insalary , bonus and stock options , for total of about $ 160 million . compensation specialist brian_foley says compensation is beyond breathtaking , and it dwarfs what their competitors are earning . viacom spokesman carl_folta says overall compensation was based on operating performance of company , and that was excellent in 2004 . adds compensation was not based on stock price , which declined 18 percent in 2004 .
 pet owners have many options when preparing for death of beloved animals , such as funeral services , customized burial sites and bereavement counseling . grieving pet owners are increasingly choosing cremation of remains . united_states has more than 1,000 pet cemeteries . revenues for pet care service industry reached $ 18.2 billion in 2005 . is expected to reach $ 25.3 billion by 2010 .
 acting gov richard_j_codey 's plan to revitalize sports complex in new jersey meadowlands has raised questions about future of shopping and entertainment development that former gov james_e_mcgreevey 's administration approved for site . $ 1.3 billion development project , called meadowlands xanadu , has been under attack by environmentalists and local opponents . mills_corp and mack-cali_realty_corp are developers of xanadu project .
 paul s c tacon , leading australian anthropologist , describes unusually rare and pristine cache of ancient aboriginal rock art found in cave in rugged wilderness not far from sydney . says more than 200 images in giant mural stretch from 4,000 years ago to late 18th_century when white settlers first ventured onto australian soil . cave was discovered by hikers , but tacon is only expert to have seen it so far .
 article discusses formation , naming , path and frequency of hurricanes and tropical storms . florida was spared major hurricanes from 1968 to 2003 , with notable exception of andrew in 1992 , but new active era for hurricanes began with natural oscillation in ocean temperatures in 1995 . this year 's double strike , with hurricanes charley and frances coming within one month of each other , is unlucky , but within natural variation in trends of storms .
 article on constantino_brumidi , italian-born fresco artist whose ornate renaissance - and pompeian-style murals decorate much of us capitol building , will be honored by congress in capitol_rotunda on 200th anniversary of his birth . joseph_grano , chairman of constantino_brumidi_society , is seeking to make brumidi , who emigrated to us from italy in 1852 and died penniless and alone in 1880 , an american folk hero .
 david_brooks op-ed column notes that his elder son joshua will be bar mitzvahed at newly restored synagogue in downtown washington , dc , and that he will read from torah that is only one of 13 from wegrow , poland , to survive holocaust . mourns 6,000 to 8,000 jews in town who did not survive nazi occupation .
 international flights are in record demand as summer travel season kicks off , and ticket prices , always high at this time of year , seem extra pricey compared with low fares at home . biggest push is to europe , as americans take advantage of euro 's recent weakening . consumers who waited until now to book their international tickets can expect to pay minimum of $ 1,000 from new_york to popular destinations like london and paris . all major american companies , and some of big foreign airlines , have added new cities and extra flights , especially across atlantic , hoping to capitalize on brief , but lucrative season for overseas vacation travel . present and upcoming flight expansions at major airlines , including united_airlines , air france , northwest , delta_air_lines and american_airlines , noted .
 article on comeback of a cats , unique class of wooden sail boats popular in 1920 's and built for racing on barnegat_bay , nj . only seven boats were built and by 1970 's only four remained , all of them barely seaworthy . role of nelson_hartranft , 73 , peter_kellogg , 63 , and other enthusiasts and boatbuilders in reviving a cats and seeking to persuade younger sailors to join them described .
 federal court clears way for suit by 3,000 central american_banana_workers seeking millions of dollars in damages from shell oil , dow_chemical , occidental_chemical , dole food , del monte fresh produce and chiquita_brands_international for variety of medical problems attributed to insecticide dibromochloropropane , or dbcp . pesticide was banned in united_states in 1977 but continued to be used for years on banana plantations that supply us fruit industry .
 california officials are meeting through holiday weekend to address state 's $ 38 billion budget gap and imminent cut in its already low credit rating . gov gray davis vows to resist republican budget plan . warns recall election to oust him would waste $ 30 million . defends own budget plan , which raises taxes by $ 8 billion and cuts $ 18 billion in spending . republican plan has no tax increases . recall proponents continue to gather signatures . rating agencies say drive exacerbates fiscal woes .
 band of union presidents threatening to secede from afl-cio are varied lot , but they agree on fundamental point : that afl-cio has utterly failed to reverse labor 's slide even as workers struggle to cope with stagnant wages and shrinking benefits . they are arguing for federation to embrace far-reaching changes to save organized labor from oblivion . thumbnail sketches of four : joe_hansen of united_food_and_commercial_workers_union , james_p_hoffa_of_teamsters , bruce_raynor of unite here , and andrew_l_stern_of_service employees union .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column proposes several things that can be done to help stop genocide in darfur . calls for appointment of prominent united_nations envoy to lead peace negotiations . urges pres bush and european leaders to involve china , saudi_arabia , egypt and libya in solution . says us , france and un should immediately send peacekeepers to chad and central african republic . recommends that western countries apply targeted sanctions .
 the atlantic monthly , pillar of boston 's intellectual and cultural life since its founding there in 1857 , is being moved to washington as its owner seeks to control costs and centralize his editorial operations . david g bradley bought the atlantic for $ 10 million from mortimer_b_zuckerman in 1999 . bradley says he hopes for ` intellectual atmosphere ' in nation 's capital . magazine has been struggling financially , losing $ 4 million to $ 8 million . bradley has put more than $ 30 million into magazine over last six years .
 developers bob and cortney_novogratz are gutting and rebuilding four town houses in manhattan 's little italy and plan to incorporate in them many of architectural castoffs they have salvaged around world . elizabeth_moynihan , widow of sen daniel_patrick_moynihan , has returned to new_york_city and moved into upper west side apartment . filmmaker vincent_gallo seeks buyer for west village apartment he never occupied . building has been plagued by reports of technical problems and infighting among celebrity householders . martha_stewart sells her duplex penthouse in building to gilbert_lamphere .
 mayor dannel_p_malloy of stamford , conn , and mayor john_destefano jr of new haven , conn , will face off in democratic primary to challenge incumbent gov m jodi_rell in november . they are dealing with low voter recognition and high approval of rell . their campaigns have been eclipsed by democratic senatorial primary battle between sen joseph_i_lieberman and antiwar candidate ned_lamont .
 british police arrest radical islamic cleric abu_hamza_al-masri after united_states requests his extradition to face trial on numerous charges related to alleged terrorist activities . atty gen john_ashcroft unseals 11-count indictment accusing masri of hostage-taking and conspiracy in connection with attack in yemen in 1998 on 16 tourists , including two americans . masri is also charged with conspiracy to provide and conceal material support to al qaeda terrorists . some critics accuse us of moving against inconsequential figure to demonstrate progress in fighting terrorists . new_york_city police comr raymond w kelly calls masri major figure .
 horse racing notebook discusses trainer michael_tomlinson , who scratched sir cherokee for kentucky_derby because of fractured leg . trainer bobby_frankel says empire maker will be able to race in kentucky derby , despite bruised foot . bird town wins kentucky_oaks . ten cents a shine has only beaten five horses in last three races .
 editorial praises center for governmental research and empire center for new_york state policy for posting on web details of how as much as $ 1 billion a year has been spent on pet projects approved by new_york gov george_pataki , senate majority leader joseph_bruno and assembly speaker sheldon_silver .
 military contractor mitchell wade pleads guilty to paying rep randy_cunningham over $ 1 million in bribes and to hiring son of defense_dept official william s rich jr in scheme that helped bring his firm mzm_inc over $ 150 million in military contracts since 2002 . cunningham resigned from congress in nov 2005 after pleading guilty to taking bribes from wade .
 harper dry lake energy park in chino , calif , hopes to be able to convert cow manure to electricity . buck johns , 61 , president of inland_energy_inc , developer of energy plants based in newport_beach , heard about chino basin situation and proposed building methane digester on 1,900 acres in high desert country just west of barstow , in san_bernardino_county . housing development abuts california_dairy_farm in chino_basin , where 50 square miles are home to 350,000 cows and 500,000 people .
 lawyers for john a muhammad , charged with plotting the washington-area sniper attacks , rest their case after presenting five witnesses in less than three hours . muhammad is charged with oct 2002 killing of dean h meyers in manassas , va . jury selection concludes in trial of lee_malvo , other defendant in attacks , who is charged with killing linda_franklin in falls church , va , in oct 2002 .
 david_brooks op-ed column holds that pennsylvania sen rick_santorum will probably lose current senate race and that this is bad news for poor and underprivileged . contends that santorum has played leadership role in antipoverty legislation for 12 years . details some of these proposals . says santorum has abrasive style but impressive results .
 beef information center , part of canadian cattlemens ' association , estimates that canada 's beef consumption will be 8 percent to 10 percent higher in 2003 than in 2002 , making it only country where demand has increased in face of mad cow disease outbreak . experts are wondering how canadian consumers will react now that infected holstein cow in washington state has almost certainly been traced backed to canada .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column on cia director george_tenet 's testimony before 9/11 commission that he did not talk to pres bush in month preceding terror attack and did not convey to any high administration official news of the arrest of zacarias_moussaoui . says tenet either has faulty memory or is fuzzing things to cover for bush .
 united nations special representative lakhdar_brahimi , one of main architects of afghanistan 's new constitution , prepares to bow out after two years in job . brahimi , an algerian diplomat , has been loyal ally to afghans since brokering bonn accords in dec 2001 for new afghan order after defeat of taliban . is personal friend of pres hamid_karzai , and has served in afghanistan twice . was un special envoy from 1997 to 1999 , during taliban years .
 emotional ceremony is held aboard navy ship off ecuador for 94 ecuadoreans who drowned on first leg of risky trip to united_states on aug 12 . they were on creaky , wooden ship made to hold 15 people when it sank . tens of thousands of ecuadoreans every year pay up to $ 12,000 each to be smuggled to what they hope will be better life . tragedies at sea are not uncommon , but details of drownings rarely become public , and government authorities have done little to investigate . but tales of latest accident have prompted pres alfredo_palacio to pledge crackdown on human smuggling .
 six suicide bombers attack crowds in iraq celebrating shiite holiday ashura , killing as many as 39 people and injuring about 150 others . group led by abu_musab_al-zarqawi claims responsibility for suicide bombing outside iraqi_army building in baquba . american soldier is killed in attacks near kadimain shrine . bomber on bicycle rides into tent of sunni mourners at funeral in baghdad , mistaking them for shiites .
 california governor gray_davis , fighting recall , gets support from afl-cio , which holds that no prominent democrat should run as possible successor to davis . democratic leadership committee issues letter signed by nine democratic presidential aspirants opposing recall as ` partisan republican effort ' . many democrats , including rep loretta_sanchez , are anxious about party 's decisions to support davis and not field candidate on portion of ballot that will ask voters to select successor to davis if he loses recall vote on october 7 .
 moldova 's 3.4 million residents will vote to select new parliament , which will select president . russia has all but severed ties with communist pres vladimir_voronin . united_states has been nudging country toward liberalization but has watched leadership backsliding . government is accused of manipulating media coverage , using police to intimidate opposition and abusing state resources to advance voronin 's campaign . no party appears strong enough to win 61 seats of 101 required to elect president , but communists appear to be leading .
 eastman kodak_co , scrambling to keep costs in line with shrinking film revenue , says it will cut up to 6,000 jobs . posts second-quarter income of $ 112 million , compared with $ 284 million in 2002 period . sales are flat at $ 3.35 billion . predicts income in second half will fall sharply from 2002 period .
 cristina nehring essay on new books addressing and inspired by the myth of abelard and heloise discusses books heloise and abelard by james_burge , farewell , my only one by antoine_audouard , abelard and heloise by constant j mews , the letters of abelard and heloise translated with an introduction and notes by betty_radice , and the lost letters of heloise and abelard : perceptions of dialogue in twelfth-century france by contstant j mews .
 boldface names column on appearance at joe 's pub by fran_landesman , 75-year-old jazz lyricist who recalls bohemian life in london , where she has lived for forty years with husband jay_landesman , now 88 . landesman 's nephew is producer rocco_landesman . party in saks jewelry department for memorial sloan_kettering_cancer_center draws various celebrities . gillian_hearst-shaw , 22-year-old daughter of patricia_hearst , attends wearing mother 's diamonds and her own .
 rudolph w giuliani 's bid for presidency is exposed to new scrutiny as result of lobbying his law firm has done for years on behalf of citgo_petroleum_corp , company controlled by pres hugo_chavez of venezuela , strident critic of pres bush and american-style capitalism . giuliani 's duties at firm , bracewell_&_giuliani , do not include lobbying .
 federal investigators have issued subpoenas to at least two firms linked to new_york_state_senate majority leader joseph_bruno in probe of his business dealings . one is partnership involving albany lobbyist that bought and sold lakeside property in rensselaer_county , including parcel purchased by sherrie_abbruzzese . her husband jared is bruno friend and one of group seeking control of state 's thoroughbred racing . second company is capital business consultants , which bruno runs out of home . bruno has broad array of financial interests intersecting with official role . some of dealings with abbruzzese and his companies , lobbyist james_d_featherstonhaugh and technology executives leonard_fassler and joseph_magno noted .
 american indian and alaska native youth 15 to 24 years old are committing suicide at rate more than three times national average for their age group of 13 per 100,000 people . suicide rate among indian youth in great_plains is worst : 10 times national average . experts say that adolescence is time of trouble for all youths , but in american indian communities it is compounded by limited opportunities , historical trauma and contemporary discrimination .
 less than third of 136,000 members of iraqi security forces that pentagon says are trained and equipped can be sent to tackle most challenging missions in country , according to joint_chiefs_of_staff_chairman_gen_richard_b_myers , and iraqi_army units are suffering severe troop shortages , according to deputy_defense_sec paul d wolfowitz . new information reveals fresh details of problems plaguing fledgling iraqi security forces and underscores challenge bush administration faces in helping whip iraqis into fighting form to secure their own country and allow 150,000 american_service members there to leave eventually .
 the new_york_times / cbs_news poll finds americans have persistent reservations about pres bush 's proposed tax cuts , but 67 percent still approve of his job performance and 70 percent say he has strong leadership qualities , trait that white_house has always believed would trump concerns about his policies . 47 percent express confidence in bush 's management of economy , down seven points in month since he began pushing tax plan , and many americans believe nation should use money to cut deficit or finance health care system . 57 percent say republicans have vision for leading country , 40 percent credit democrats . graph . findings suggest daunting task for democratic presidential challengers , with some encouragement in other opinions . respondents believe democrats would better handle changing health care , creating jobs and improving education .
 bombs explode outside three mosques in davao , philippines , in what police say may have been retaliation for recent bombing near ferry terminal that killed 16 people and injured 50 . no one is killed in mosque explosions , which occur hours before pres gloria_macapagal_arroyo 's arrival to meet with authorities about terminal bombing .
 nine letters on devastation of hurricane katrina one year later . gov kathleen_babineaux_blanco thanks new yorkers who came to aid of louisiana . d c montague deplores bush administration 's relief effort . gregory d squires says prospects for recovery of new_orleans are not encouraging . henri_andre_fourroux iii praises aug 25 report on small businesses of new_orleans . christie theriot_woodfin says new bankruptcy law will hinder business recovery . tom olson deplores continuing presence of rubbish on streets of new_orleans . brittany_turner scores political posturing about storm . richard w stanley says that if new_orleans is rebuilt , it should be strictly industrial . colleen kyle_deplores_pres_bush 's response to tragedy .
 newark , nj , emerges from hard economic times as survivor in office real estate market . vacancy rate is now 13 to 14 percent , in contrast with nearby suburban town of parsippany , which is holding steady at 20 percent . kushner companies , real estate firm that handles both city and suburban properties , is working to attract major firm to its refurbished military park building in newark . other new jersey areas discussed .
 new investigations into insurance industry are opened in new_york and california , both focusing on incentives and other fees paid by insurance companies to commercial insurance brokers . new_york atty gen elliot_spitzer issues subpoenas to country 's three biggest insurance brokers : marsh_inc and willis_group_holdings , both in new_york , and aon in chicago . california insurance comr john_garamendi is looking into potential conflicts of interest in several insurance brokerage companies across country .
 marine_corps_lt_col_jeffrey_r_chessani was battalion commander in haditha , iraq , when roadside bomb planted by sunni arab insurgents killed one of his marines and wounded two others , and when infantrymen under his command , seeking to engage enemy , instead killed 24 civilians . chessani and other officers are charged with dereliction of duty for failing to investigate episode properly and relieved of their command . military hearing at camp_pendleton will decide if chessani should face formal court-martial . witnesses and military documents paint two contradictory portraits of chessani , highest-ranking marine officer charged since iraq war began .
 russia labors back and forth on where it stands in debate over iraq , and this vacillation reflects more fundamental question of whether pres vladimir v putin will align russia with us or europe . russia 's economic and political future is bound to europe , with which it has stronger trade , investment and cultural ties , but it needs us because two nations are often reluctant political partners in koreas , central and south_asia , middle_east and virtually everywhere else russia claims strategic interest .
 rev dr suzan_johnson_cook has nurtured black female protegees at three churches she has led in new_york over last quarter-century . rev henrietta_carter succeeded cook in her first pulpit at mariner 's temple in financial district . rev karen_jones served as cook 's assistant pastor first at bronx_christian_fellowship and currently at believer 's christian fellowship in harlem .
 effort to design toll-collection system for trucks on german autobahn runs into technical problems and delays . deutsche_telekom and daimlerchrysler , which are creating ambitious system , face fines of 250,000 euros -lrb- $ 294,000 -rrb- a day starting on dec 1 until system begins operating . government estimates that it is missing out on collection of 156 million euros -lrb- $ 183 million -rrb- a month in toll fees from heavy trucks .
 epic , period , battle-heavy movies like warner_brothers ' $ 200 million troy , universal 's $ 140 million van helsing and disney 's king arthur reportedly are summer movie season 's biggest disappointments . audiences have flocked to smaller-budgeted comedies , including dodgeball and anchorman , and sequels , including shrek 2 , which grossed whopping $ 436 million , spider-man 2 , the bourne_supremacy and harry_potter and the prisoner of azkaban .
 pres hu jintao of china publicly urges hong_kong 's leader tung_chee-hwa to improve his management of semiautonomous chinese territory . remark seen as rebuke . hong_kong 's many problems in sevn years since britain returned it to chinese rule have turned small democracy movement into important social force able to bring hundreds of thousands of people into streets .
 stribling_&_associates , private brokerage , identifies 91 luxury co-ops in manhattan that sold for over $ 4 million in 2003 and says average price for them surged nearly 15 percent , to $ 7.2 million , figure that is just 5 percent below peak of market in 2000 . says sales accelerated through fall , buoyed by end-of-year wall street bonuses .
 paul_krugman op-ed column discusses vindictiveness of bush administration toward insiders who reveal awkward truths about its policies . cites administration 's rapid and hostile attacks on character of former counterterrorism coordinator richard_clarke just hours after 60 minutes interview in which he claimed terrorism warnings prior to 9/11 were ignored and that administration used attacks as vehicle to wage war in iraq . praises clarke for telling truth .
 exxon mobil , which has exclusive contract to extract oil at cepu , indonesia , will not pump one drop . since finding more oil than expected in 2001 , exxon_mobil has been locked in talks with indonesia 's national_petroleum_company_pertamina , which has demanded that exxon_mobil share more of bounty . indonesia 's oil wells are drying up faster than new fields are being tapped . indonesia is trying to persuade oil companies to explore smaller , more remote sites . oil companies are holding out for more stable political and regulatory climate and more favorable terms . oil is one of indonesia 's largest exports and one of largest sources of government revenue .
 brazil 's shrimp producers are facing serious new challenge in their biggest market . southern shrimp alliance on dec 31 filed dumping complaint against brazil and five other countries , seeking to impose tariffs of up to 300 percent , and last_month commerce_department ruled that there were grounds to proceed because there were indications of ` danger of injury ' to american producers .
 hearst_corp agrees in principle to buy seventeen , largest-circulation magazine for teenage girls , from primedia for about $ 180 million in cash . operating profits at magazine fell to $ 15.1 million last year from $ 25.9 million in 2000 . current trends are not promising . newsstand sales were off 24.1 percent in last_six_months_of 2002 , compared with period year earlier .
 exodus of people from detroit creates crisis for city 's government and school system , forcing not just slashing of staff and services , but also fundamental right-sizing for new , shrunken reality . city now has population of 911,000 , less than half its 1950 's peak . faces $ 389 million budget deficit and threat of receivership . mayor kwame m kilpatrick says city will soon lay off 686 people and eliminate 237 vacant jobs , cut employees ' pay 10 percent across the board , end overnight bus service and close aquarium .
 german high court refuses to turn over to spain mamoun_darkazanli , german of syrian origin who is suspected by spanish authorities and independent terrorism experts of providing logistical and financial support to al_qaeda . says new european procedure to streamline such extraditions violates rights of germans . darkazanli , seen on 1999 videotape at hamburg wedding with two sept 11 hijackers , is wanted by judge_baltasar_garzon .
 three members of one bronx family die from carbon_monoxide fumes that police suspect fumes came from unventilated generator that was used to heat home after consolidated_edison turned off electrical power for nonpayment of bill . are identified as patrick_williams , erna_dennis and 2-month-old patricia_williams . fourth victim is in serious condition . con ed says it did not know child under two-years old was in home .
 actress hilary_swank creates mini-scandal as she arrives at academy awards in dramatic blue gown designed by guy laroche instead of one designed by francisco_costa for calvin_klein . swank made similar last-minute switch in 2000 when she replaced christian dior dress with one by randolph_duke . overall fashion statement made on red carpet this year leaned toward primary colors , reprieve from nude trend at last year 's oscars . what actresses wear for oscars night seems increasingly result of business transactions rather than matter of taste .
 escalating turmoil in jury room appears to bring six-month trial of former tyco_international executives l dennis_kozlowski and mark_h_swartz to verge of collapse after several unusual events , including hand gesture from one juror in open court that seemed to signal her support for defense . jury sends note to state_supreme_court_justice_michael_j obus describing its deliberations as ` irreparably compromised ' . obus denies defense motion for mistrial . case appears to be at impasse because of one juror who is holding out for acquittal on all 32 criminal charges against kozlowski and swartz , who are accused of stealing $ 170 million from tyco by hiding details of their pay package from board and pilfering $ 430 million by selling tyco shares after artificially pumping up their price . justice obus photo .
 developer paul_d_reichmann , whose empire crumbled in early 1990 's when his canary wharf project in london was left without paying tenants , has bounced back with torre mayor in mexico city , tallest building in latin_america . reichmann 's re-emergence in mexico as speculative entrepreneurial developer is complemented by continuing involvement in canary_wharf , which is now booming , and new footholds in real estate markets in us .
 carmen_molina and zahira_matos are charged with murder and endangering welfare of child in sept 19 death of matos 's son , yiovanni_tellez . papers filed in state_supreme_court , manhattan , show that molina admitted that she struck tellez at least three times while giving him bath . matos pleads not guilty in death of child , who was weeks away from his second birthday .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column addresses question of ` why is africa such a mess . ' . holds central problem is insecurity , and cites violence associated with decades of civil war in chad and sudan . finds that violence , like genocide in sudan , hamstrings africa . argues there is no formula for economic development , but three factors seem crucial : security , market-oriented policies and good governance .
 primedia chief executive thomas s rogers resigns over plans by company 's controlling investor kohlberg_kravis_roberts to dismantle business he was hired to build . kohlberg_kravis has decided to sell much if not all of primedia over next 18 to 24 months . primedia 's president-founder charles_g_mccurdy is named interim chief executive while board conducts search for permanent successor .
 six letters on iraq conflict . john_v_walsh , jim_quigley and susan_fiore agree with maureen_dowd 's assessment in nov 22 op-ed column . robert_dallek disputes mark_moyar 's nov 21 op-ed on vietnam and iraq , saying us should not have become involved militarily in either case . david_budde and hugh_crossin say it was distressing to read that army military police captain has scaled back her goal to simply getting her soldiers home -lrb- nov 19 article -rrb- .
 owners of tribeca 's famed nobu and next door nobu restaurants , including chef nobuyuki_matsuhisa , robert_de_niro and drew_nieporent , plan to open midtown manhattan branch , nobu 57 , on 57th street in may . owners cite success of other high-end japanese restaurants in manhattan and difficulty many nobu patrons have in getting reservations .
 new_york_city transit says new routes between brooklyn and manhattan following end of repairs to manhattan bridge have satisfied 77 percent of riders , according to its survey . main goal of changes was to send more trains over bridge , bypassing lower manhattan , because planners discovered that three-quarters of riders wanted to go that way , while only half the trains running between two boroughs during rush hour were doing it . says improvement is most striking in chinatown .
 maureen_dowd op-ed column says she can not get worked up about whether women can join augusta_national_golf_course because she developed aversion to golf during hundreds of hours spent covering bill_clinton , george_w_bush and his father on golf course . quotes from don_van_natta jr 's new book on presidential golf , first off the tee .
 millions of americans start their holiday shopping , making retailers optimistic about sales . national retail federation projects sales gain of 4.5 percent in 2004 , which is not as robust as in 2003 . emphasis on black friday , as day is called because retailers traditionally expect to become profitable for year , is on electronics because toy manufacturers have failed to come up with any must-have new toys .
 carl_icahn denies he is seeking to start proxy fight to replace time_warner_inc 's board . icahn and three other funds have built 3.1 percent stake in company . several former time_warner executives and other media executives reportedly have been approached . icahn has hired lazard_freres to create plan for how his team would lift time_warner 's stagnant share price .
 absence of standard for next generation of high-definition dvd 's , players and recorders does not prevent tweeters , high-end consumer electronics chain , from ordering disc player that toshiba plans to release this year . toshiba 's machine , costing upwards of $ 1,000 , will be able to play only 89 movies from three studios , but tweeters believes hard-core video fanatics will buy them all the same . toshiba , sanyo and nec are championing hd dvd format . sony , matsushita and hewlett-packard back rival blu-ray format .
 china 's effort to achieve regional supremacy is bringing russia and japan together , even though they have never signed peace treaty ending world war ii . reciprocal visits by navy and coast_guard units have become annual affairs , bilateral trade in 2004 jumped 38 percent over 2003 levels , and japan is largest foreign investor in oil and gas projects on sakhalin . japan 's fear of china overrides irritants such as russian arms sales to china and lingering anger over deaths of some 5,000 japanese prisoners of war who died in siberian work camps .
 ancient enmities are recalled by proposal in germany to build center in berlin to study and remember mass expulsions of more than 12 million ethnic germans from eastern_europe in aftermath of world war ii . proposal provokes emotional negative reaction in wroclaw , poland , which was known for centuries by german name , breslau , and was reduced to rubble during war and painstakingly restored .
 houston mayor bill_white accuses fema of breaking promise to hurricane katrina evacuees by imposing strict limits on housing relocation program even as it stops hotel subsidies as of dec 1 . photo . letter to homeland security sec michael_chertoff says ` great nations ' keep their word . fema has given cities until dec 1 to sign apartment leases limited to three months , which white says cuts off leasing option for more than 19,000 people still in hotel rooms in his area .
 mayor michael_bloomberg 's coattails do not extend to other candidates on republican line as new_york 's democratic voters return to fold in other contests . jessica_lapin defeats republican joel_m_zinberg , 65-35 percent , in race for councilman gifford_miller 's upper_east side seat . photo . other democrats winning council races are james_vacca in bronx , daniel r garodnick in manhattan and vincent_gentile in brooklyn .
 steven_f_reich , lawyer for connecticut_legislative_committee investigating gov john_g_rowland 's dealings with contractors , walks committee through series of transactions that suggests developer robert_v_matthews found favor with state agencies because of his personal relationship with rowland . richard t mulready of connecticut_development_authority says he changed his vote on guarantee of $ 16 million loan by norwest_bank_to_matthews 's company , fabricated metal products , after finding out he was friend of rowland 's . other testimony indicates matthews tried to use his ties to rowland to secure $ 10 million in state aid to lure a company to building he owned in new haven . list of others from whom committee heard testimony or received sworn statements .
 finding fire that is still in formative stage is considered crucial to limiting its damage . current fire-spotting cameras have tendency to generate false alarms . donald_mckeown and michael_richardson of rochester_institute_of_technology introduce airborne array of four digital cameras that they plan to begin testing this summer . they say array will overcome several significant problems with current aerial camera systems and distinguish fires as small as one foot across from height of 10,000 feet . diagram .
 royal family of dubai purchases landmark knickerbocker building at 42nd street and broadway in manhattan for $ 300 million dollars . plans to restore building to original glory as upscale hotel . landmarks preservation commission must approve plans . in addition to knickerbocker , istithmar_pjsc , investment arm of royal family , has purchased three other luxury skyscrapers in manhattan in recent months servi .
 jury finds that robert_zarinsky killed police officer charles_bernoskie during robbery in rahway , nj , in november 1958 awards his widow , elizabeth , and family $ 2.5 million in monetary loss and $ 7 million for pain bernoski suffered after shooting . family filed civil wrongful-death suit after zarinsky 's acquittal on criminal charges in may 2001 . zarinsky is serving 98-year sentence for murder of teenage girl in 1969 .
 sixteen experienced analysts of about 60 who covered stocks in us have left smith_barney since parent citigroup_chairman_sanford_i_weill_hired_sallie_l_krawcheck to run smith_barney_research operations last october . eight analysts were dismissed in may , and coverage of 117 companies was suspended , with some of it to be resumed at later date . smith_barney has at least temporarily discontinued coverage of close to 250 companies , leaving big gap with regard to number of important industries . firm covers 700 companies in us . krawcheck is telling her securities analysts that high investor ratings are not enough . she and top assistants are stressing good stock picking and improved services to clients .
 smithsonian institution , skirting controversy that in 1995 enveloped its display of enola gay at national_air_and_space_museum , adopts minimalist approach in displaying plane in new setting at steven_f_udvar-hazy_center in chantilly , va . b-29 bomber is for first time reassembled in original state in which it flew mission over hiroshima on aug_6_, 1945 , to drop atomic bomb .
 supreme court , with eight justices voting , overturns california appeals court ruling against leaving ` under god ' in pledge of allegiance , while keeping issue alive for possible resolution in future case . only chief justice william_rehnquist and justices sandra day o'connor and clarence_thomas comment on merits of case , finding 50-year-old revised version with phrase to be constitutional . other five justices say plaintiff , dr michael_a_newdow , lacked standing because his daughter 's mother , sandra_banning , has final say on child 's education . she supports pledge as written . photos . antonin scalia recused himself after publicly criticizing california ruling .
 chicago_board_of_education votes to ease strict promotion requirements that have served as model for new_york_city mayor michael_bloomberg 's plan to end social promotion in new_york_city schools . action in chicago comes in anticipation of new research expected to show that seven-year effort did not raise test scores for third graders and in most cases resulted in lower scores for sixth graders . study could have implications for bloomberg 's strict new promotion rules for third graders , which were opposed by majority of city 's panel for educational policy .
 chrysler_group is set to announce restructuring plan aimed at securing its place in crowded american car market , and within daimlerchrysler . plan is expected to include elimination of about 11,000 blue - and white-collar jobs along with closing of one and possibly two assembly plants in delaware and missouri . chrysler may shut smaller plants elsewhere and announce other cost-cutting measures to meet its stated goal of reducing costs by about $ 1,000 per vehicle .
 tide of grief surges through holy city of najaf as thousands of shiite muslim mourners pour in from throughout iraq , walking silently to corner of sacred shrine where their revered spiritual leader , ayatollah_muhammad_bakr_al-hakim , was assassinated . funeral for bakr and 81 others killed by huge car bomb is to start aug 31 in baghdad and travel around center of country . there is no body for funeral , just parts of ayatollah 's black turban .
 some members of congress want nasa to expand membership of outside panel created to investigate space shuttle columbia disaster , saying it is dominated by government and military officials . are concerned 10-member mishap_interagency_investigation_board , which has five members with military backgrounds and 2 from transportation agencies , could focus too closely on technical causes of shuttle 's disintegration on reentry into earth 's atmosphere on february 1 and not on broader explanations behind loss of spacecraft .
 profile of newell_rubbermaid , which has been floundering since its ill-started acquisition of rubbermaid five years ago . focuses on company 's financial problems under leadership of joseph_galli jr . newell lost $ 46.6 million last year on sale of $ 7.8 billion , after loss of $ 203.4 million on sales of $ 7.5 billion in 2002 . galli comments .
 israel a england 's firm millennium partners has been dogged for last year by probes conducted by new_york_state_atty_gen_eliot_spitzer and securities_and_exchange_commission into rapid mutual fund trades by former millennium employee steven_b_markovitz . mutual fund trades , made over four-year period , were processed after 4 pm market close , but at earlier price , practice regulators have said is illegal .
 new branch of geology models what earth 's continents will look like as far as 250 million years into future . land mass movement , which is predicted using theory of plate tectonics , described . suggest that supercontinent will emerge , although various researchers view collisions of land masses to happen in different ways . dr christopher_r_scotese , university_of_texas , arlington , geologist , disagrees with findings and holds that geological future of earth beyond next 50 million years is unpredictable .
 sen john_kerry surrounds himself with 1,800 of his biggest supporters in iowa rally : vietnam war comrades , firefighters , and fellow massachusetts sen edward m kennedy . kerry levels pungent attack at surging contender sen john_edwards , saying he lacks experience , and in next moment he hints he might consider edwards as running mate .
 dorothy_samuels , in editorial observer column , holds that legislation to prevent youth suicide just approved by house and senate fails to address most salient risk factor for troubled young people -- presence of gun in home . notes that study by johns_hopkins_bloomberg_school_of_public_health and annenberg_public_policy_center found 8.3 percent decrease in teenage suicide rates in 18 states that have enacted some form of child access prevention , or cap law , making it crime to store guns carelessly .
 saudi_arabia and united_states leads international donors from more than 30 countries to pledge $ 7.6 billion in aid for lebanon . donors , meeting in paris , take pains to deflect criticism that their aid pledges are solely meant to prop up government of prime min fouad_siniora . siniora , seeking to present his country as ripe for investment , is embarrassed by clashes between pro-government and hezbollah-led opposition forces that killed four people and wounded 150 in beirut .
 sun microsystems returns to profitability in second_quarter while advanced micro devices reports loss . sun 's net income for quarter was $ 126 million , compared to net loss of $ 233 million in same period year earlier . revenue was $ 3.6 billion . amd posts net loss of $ 574 million . revenue for quarter was $ 1.77 billion , compared with $ 1.84 billion year earlier .
 stephen_s_crawford , named morgan_stanley co-president in march by then-chairman philip_j_purcell , in midst of power struggle , leaves firm with $ 32 million severance package , as if he had held post for two years . deal casts new spotlight on board , which remains under fire for close ties to purcell even after his departure . board has also paid undisclosed sums to other allies of purcell , who appointed all but one of directors . new chief executive , john_j_mack , reportedly was not aware of severance deals , but is under pressure to address composition of board .
 sen john_kerry ran advertisements in just 13 states from sept 7-sept 16 , pulling back in 7 other states he had tried to make competitive . democratic national committee augmented kerry ads with significant purchasing of its own , but there were fewer kerry and democratic party advertisments in that period than spots bought by pres bush and republican_national_committee , and bush ads ran in 19 states . chief kerry campaign strategist tad devine says they are reserving their resources for future opportunities .
 police search five houses in beeston , mixed-race neighborhood on fringes of leeds , eng , following arrests of three men of pakistani descent on suspicion of having been accomplices of 2005 london suicide bombers , all of whom also lived in beeston . arrests are first in britain in case , and they reinforce homegrown nature of country 's terrorism threat . host of questions are unanswered despite almost two years of investigations . although three taken into custody do not appear to have been major players themselves , it is understood that they knew four who blew themselves up in 2005 .
 attendance for annual american association of advertising agencies in new_orleans is being estimated at lowest level ever amid war anxieties , worst ad downturn in decades and even weather problems . about 250 to 260 people are attending conference compared with 293 last_yeaer and 450 during boom year of 2000 . agency executives attending conference will hear presentations on economy and war .
 massachusetts and federal regulators say more than 25,000 letters and e-mail messages were sent by 68 mutual fund companies over 12 months to prudential_securities , all complaining about small group of prudential brokers in boston who were placing hundreds of short-term trades in defiance of funds ' rules . funds would warn them , or block trades . brokers continued , using disguised names and identification numbers until september , when civil complaints were filed against them by securities_and_exchange_commission and state regulators in massachusetts .
 article on comeback of a cats , unique class of wooden sail boats popular in 1920 's and built for racing on barnegat_bay , nj . only seven boats were built and by 1970 's only four remained , all of them barely seaworthy . role of nelson_hartranft , 73 , peter_kellogg , 63 , and other enthusiasts and boatbuilders in reviving a cats and seeking to persuade younger sailors to join them described .
 study conducted by national_law_journal based on data assembled by verdictsearch concludes that jury verdicts in civil lawsuits may have leveled off and even declined . finds that in 100 biggest verdicts of 2004 , juries assessed total of $ 11.1 billion in damages , down from $ 20.1 billion in 2003 and $ 40 billion in 2002 .
 iraqis in 14 countries outside iraq vote on jan 28 , in first of three days of expatriate balloting that will culminate in iraq 's national election on jan 30 . thousands of eligible voters throughout world take part in first free iraqi elections since 1954 , and for first time get glimpse of lists of candidates , which were kept secret throughout campaign for security reasons .
 french aluminum and packaging group pechiney rebuffs second takeover offer from alcan_of_canada , but leaves door open for alcan to raise its bid again . alcan values latest offer at 47 to 48 euros -lrb- $ 51.68 to $ 52.78 -rrb- in stock and cash for each pechiney share , total of 4 billion euros -lrb- $ 4.4 billion -rrb- .
 death of yasir_arafat has been like holing of dam on long-blocked river , with powerful surge of optimism and new ideas in middle_east . one of most intriguing is suggestion that israel should consider joining nato . idea is that closer ties to nato would embed israel in west and , by providing security guarantees , give it more confidence to make comprehensive peace .
 nasa and columbia accident investigation board say columbia astronauts lived for almost one minute after final communications with mission control , well after signs of serious trouble . nasa reportedly will disclose details about crew 's fate , including records indicating capsule was severely buffeted , in hope that information can save lives in future . one investigator expresses anger now that loss is considered preventable , had nasa corrected known problem of foam falling off tank .
 bush administration officials acknowledge that justice_dept announcement that it may soon free yaser_esam_hamdi , american citizen captured in afghanistan and held as enemy combatant for three years , signals end to one of longest and most important legal struggles to result from bush administration 's war on terrorism . hamdi was denied access to defense lawyer for most of his confinement , situation that led supreme_court to sharply rebuke administration .
 michael and jeffrey_derderian , brothers who owned station nightclub in west_warwick , ri , where 100 people died in fire in feb 2003 , plead no contest to charges of involuntary manslaughter . judge francis_j_darigan jr sentences michael_derderian to four years in minimum-security prison and jeffrey to 500 hours of community service and three years probation . victims ' relatives are furious about lack of trial and about punishments they believe are too light .
 gold hill journal on efforts to restore old north_carolina town that in early 1840 's was most productive gold-mining center in north_america , forgotten after 1849 california gold rush . darius_hedrick , james_h_millis jr and others interested in town renovated several buildings and set up historic preservation society , locking horns at times with longtime residents like edwin_hammill . low-keyed new local shops described .
 state narrows to four the list of potential developers for transformation of former james a farley building in manhattan into moynihan station . plans of two of them , vornado_realty_trust and related companies , include new madison square garden at west side of farley_building , which could untangle development disagreements between cablevision , which owns garden , and bloomberg_administration . tishman speyer with jones_lang_lasalle and boston properties are other remaining developers .
 bush administration 's office of cuba broadcasting paid 10 journalists in miami , fla , to provide commentary on radio and tv marti , which transmit to cuba government broadcasts critical of fidel_castro . group includes three journalists at el_nuevo_herald , spanish-language sister newspaper of miami_herald , which fired them after learning of relationship . pablo alfonso received largest payment , almost $ 175,000 since 2001 . other journalists who received payments include wilfredo_cancio_isla , olga_connor and juan_manuel_cao .
 cannes film festival awards palm d ' or to michael_moore 's movie fahrenheit 9/11 . movie , highly critical of bush administration 's foreign policies , particularly war in iraq , is one of only three non-fiction films allowed in competition in nearly 50 years . moore , who says he did not set out to make political film , is still looking for american distributor for movie .
 nicholas_d_kristof op-ed column questions proposals by democrats to hand over more power in iraq to united_nations and nato troops . sees bush administration overselling benefits of iraqification of security . cites importance of security . says women may be worse off now than under saddam_hussein , until security improves . suggests bringing back regular iraqi_army units to bolster security , being more attentive to nationalism and resisting temptation to anoint ahmad_chalabi , who is resented by ordinary iraqis .
 bank_of_america 's $ 48 billion acquisition of fleetboston_financial is most brazen move yet by bank_of_america chief executive kenneth_d_lewis . bank_of_america 's stock price has lagged that of its peers over concerns that lewis is overpaying for fleetboston and because of bank 's role in series of financial scandals . lewis takes step to restore credibility by announcing two banks will jointly pay $ 675 million to resolve probe into trading in their mutual funds , eliminating one cloud over merger . lewis must prove fleetboston is worth price . bank_of_america is paying 40 percent premium to fleetboston 's price before merger was announced .
 arts briefing column : former bolshoi theater ballerina_anastasia_volochkova , ostensibly dismissed because she had become too heavy to lift , reportedly insists she will return to job only if given starring roles . american_institute_of_architects ' new_york chapter will open new center for architecture in greenwich_village with six days of activities . $ 60 million max m fisher_music_center , new home to detroit_symphony_orchestra , is set to open .
 body identified as that of max_guarino is found floating near city_island footbridge . he is one of four boys who apparently drowned when dinghy they took out on to icy long_island sound in january sank . police scuba divers continue to search for other three boys , charles_wertenbaker , andrew_melnikov , and henry_badillo .
 new three-story retail complex with 200,000 square feet of space is to be connected to existing tropicana hotel and casino in atlantic_city , nj , by bridge across pacific_avenue . dennis c gomes , president for resort operations for aztar_corp , which owns tropicana , says aim is to increase nongambling attractions in atlantic_city as las_vegas has done so successfully .
 slobodan milosevic , former serbian president on trial for war crimes , has been in united_nations jail in hague for four years . his demeanor has changed , but his old mind-set remains intact . he denies that atrocities were committed during his 13 years in power , during which three wars killed more than 250,000 . trial 's current focus is 1999 war in kosovo . milosevic 's constant denials that police killed civilians in kosovo infuriate lead prosecutor geoffrey_nice , who has shown videotape depicting execution of six muslim men by serbian_paramilitary_police unit as part of srebrenica_massacre in 1995 .
 mayor tom_mcdermott of millburn township , which includes short_hills , says deaths of richard_josephs , who stepped in front of commuter train , and his 8-year-old son eric , who was found dead in family 's home , are being investigated as murder-suicide . episode has stunned community , one of richest in new jersey . neighbors say josephs had been unemployed for three years .
 karaoke clubs , where people sing to recorded music tracks of famous songs , are springing up all over new_york , and bars , restaurants and lounges have started offering karaoke one or more nights a week . rentals of karaoke equipment at one distributor have increased fivefold since 2001 . those in karaoke business expect it to increase by 10 percent a year as industry switches to digital databases holding up to 90,000 songs .
 cook political report has increased number of republican congressional seats viewed as competitive to 36 seats from 24 seats . republicans are having trouble in pennsylvania and california , and pres bush has had to campaign in virginia and kentucky . public is as unhappy with congress as at any time in history of pew poll . republicans are particularly concerned that many loyal supporters seem discouraged and prone to staying home , while democrats are energized .
 pres bush says he will ask congress for $ 7.1 billion to prepare for possibility of worldwide influenza outbreak , with most of money to be spent on research and stockpile of vaccines and antiviral drugs . table . speech at national_institutes_of_health gives detailed history of flu pandemics and need to prepare . democrats in senate , which has voted to spend $ 8 million on preparations , say bush plan is inadequate . government health officials dr julie_l_gerberding and dr anthony_fauci praise administration plan , which does not specify who would be in charge in emergency . sec michael_leavitt stresses need for local , state and federal cooperation .
 new_york_city_council_speaker_gifford_miller announces he will include $ 8.3 million in council 's budget to reopen four engine companies in brooklyn and one each in queens and manhattan that were closed , but mayor michael_bloomberg dismisses idea and criticizes miller for politicizing issue . miller is expected challenger to bloomberg in next mayoral race . it is more difficult for bloomberg to cite budget constraints now because city is in better financial shape , and he insists closures reflect city 's shifting demographics .
 arts briefing column : new_york_international_fringe_festival , which canceled 131 performances because of blackout , adds 98 performances to compensate partly for lost dates . 23 nominees are announced for britain 's man booker prize for writers . london betting agency william_hill gives 6-to-1 odds to j m coetzee , author of elizabeth_costello . other favorites listed . winner will be announced on october 14 .
 two bosnian serb leaders indicted in massacre of at least 7,000 muslim men and boys in srebrenica remain at large , 10 years later . survivors and war crimes prosecutors are indignant over failure to capture two , radovan_karadzic and gen ratko_mladic , despite presence of thousands of peacekeepers in region . american and european commanders contend they are getting closer to tracking men down , and have carried out 20 raids in last six months on individuals and businesses suspected of helping war criminals hide .
 long-neglected crisis in darfur_burst_into_world 's consciousness when it was defined as genocide . though war in congo officially ended in 2002 , its violence and decay will kill twice as many people this year as have died in entire darfur conflict , which began in 2003 . conflict in congo lacks darfur 's seeming clarity and offers countless groups of combatants .
 pres bush will scale back funds to fight aids and poverty in third world , putting off fulfillment of promises to spent more than $ 20 billion . hardest-hit would be un-supported global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis and malaria , which would get $ 200 million from us in fiscal 2005 , down from $ 550 million .
 suicide car bomber near bus station in karbala , iraq , kills 36 people and wounds 168 others . furious local residents besiege police and burn two vehicles . crowd of more than 200 people throws stones at provincial government building . karbala 's gov akhil_khazali says interior_ministry turned down his request for more security .
 remarkable living legacy of mongol empire is discovered by geneticists in survey of human populations from the caucasus to china . they find that as many as 8 percent of men dwelling in confines of former mongol empire bear y chromosomes that seem characteristic of mongol_ruling_house . if so , some 16 million men , or half a percent of world 's male population , can probably claim descent from genghis khan .
 baseball notebook discusses new_york mets pitching prospect aaron_heilman , who will likely be called up from class aaa norfolk to start against florida_marlins . mets and new_york_yankees will make up for rainout by playing first game of doubleheader at yankee stadium and second game that night at shea_stadium .
 coury family of cleveland , ohio , viewed long form of 2000 united_states_census , which was first to allow people to designate their ethnic as opposed to racial origins , as opportunity to assert arab ancestry . has been in united_states for four generations and ties to lebanese ancestry have faded with assimilation and intermarriage . many younger generation lebanese-americans seek to reaffirm lebanese identity and to participate in various arab immigrant organizations , especially in wake of sept 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks .
 italian journalist daniele_mastrogiacomo , who was held hostage for 15 days by taliban in southern afghanistan , is ransomed for five taliban prisoners . move draws immediate criticism from us , great britain and other european governments . us could not bar exchanges because taliban prisoners were held by afghan government and not by us military or nato . ransom has prompted international debate about saving one life and possibly endangering others . kidnapping of mastrogiacomo came at delicate time for pres min romano_prodi 's fragile government , under pressure partly because of lack of support for presence of 2,000 italian troops in afghanistan .
 bodies of three university of wyoming students are found , sparking grief and speculation in small town of laramie , wyo . police say victims knew each other and there is no larger threat to community . they say crime was either triple homicide or double-murder and suicide . victims were adam_towler , amber n carlson and justin_r_geiger . fourth person , anthony_n_klochak , ran bleeding from crime scene and was treated and released from hospital .
 canada 's alcan will finally gain control of french rival pechiney on dec 15 in deal valued at 4 billion euros -lrb- $ 4.9 billion . one of alcan chief executive travis_engen 's top priorities will then be to decide whether to press ahead with pechiney 's plans for $ 2.2 billion aluminum smelter at coega , near south african coastal city of port elizabeth .
 italian authorities report at least 13 people died in small wooden boat adrift in mediterranean that was trying to reach italy . boat carried immigrants thought to be from somalia . survivors say vessel ran out of fuel , food and water after two weeks at sea . italy 's long , unguarded coastline has been target for illegal immigrants for many years .
 banks are surprised by avalanche of bankruptcy filings in months before new bankruptcy law went into effect . five biggest bank issuers of credit cards say unexpectedly large flood of bankruptcy filings shaved hundreds of millions of dollars off their earnings in third_quarter . tens of thousands of petitions are still being processed , and hurricane katrina 's impact on cardholders is still being sorted out , so that bankruptcy rush is likely to result in well over billion dollars worth of losses by end of year . more than 500,000 americans filed for bankruptcy protection in 10 days before law took effect on oct_17 .
 edgar_ray_killen , 79-year-old preacher and sawmill operator , is charged with 1964 murders of civil rights workers andrew_goodman , michael_h_schwerner and james_e_chaney near philadelphia , mississippi . he pleads not guilty . officials describe killen as former ku klux klan leader . he was among 18 people who were originally charged in 1967 with federal civil rights violations in deaths . seven were convicted , but killen was released after all-white jury became deadlocked .
 chelsea neighborhood of manhattan , whose nightclubs are popular with bridge-and-tunnel set from thursday to sunday , can be lonely and deadly place when clubs close and streets are empty . it is there that jennifer_moore was strangled and beaten on july 25 , that thomas_whitney jr was robbed and beaten to death on may 21 and that jessica_martinez was struck and killed by car on april 22 . police say clubs and crowds they attract have contributed to increase in crime .
 many new_york_city school swimming pools are unused for lack of funds to repair leaks and broken pipes . city has 50 pools in its 1,200 school buildings , and 10 of them are in unusable condition , often for decades . officials hope mayor michael_r_bloomberg proposal to spend $ 13.1 billion on five-year educational capital plan will include $ 60 million for upgrades to 12 school pools .
 warner_music_group turns down $ 4.2 billion takeover bid from emi_group . two music companies have held talks for several years but all efforts so far to merge have failed . industry experts see deal as inevitable . say it could save more than $ 300 million in costs while transforming competition in industry .
 gerald_decock , hairstylist and painter , has embellished every surface of his studio apartment in manhattan 's chelsea hotel with every manner of material . stanley bard , managing director of chelsea_hotel , handpicks his tenants like club impressario , knowing that hotel 's value is directly tied to character it derives from rental tenants . about half of 250 units are hotel rooms , the rest reportedly renting for between $ 1,500 and $ 5,000 a month .
 four people from flushing , queens , heading to upstate_new_york for swim meet are killed when truck strikes their van after they stop in middle of traffic on new_york state thruway in tuxedo , ny . truck driver survives , but van 's driver shuk h tse and her sons kevin_kwan and douglas jaing die . april lao , also dies . her mother and brother are hospitalized .
 prime min tony_blair will fly to united_states to meet with pres bush , bearing unusual pledge of support from 9 european leaders but leaving continent ever more divided over need for war against iraq . letter published in several newspapers offers support of leaders of spain , italy , portugal , denmark and three central eureopan nations , in addition to blair . in letter , leaders urge other europeans to join them in backing bush . 10 of 15 existing european union members do not sign letter .
 shares of auto parts maker collins_&_aikman , run by former reagan administration official david_stockman , fall more than 30 percent following reports that most of its business with chrysler may be put up for competitive bidding . chrysler is under continuing pressure to cut costs following $ 1.1 billion second-quarter loss , and recently announced temporary closure of its assembly plant in windsor , ontario .
 reza aslan essay on epic poem shahnameh by abolqasem ferdowsi . poem recounts mythological history of iran from first fitful moments of creation to arab conquest of persian empire in seventh century ad . only complete english translation of text went out of print more than 80 years ago . viking press has just published most of poem in accessible volume translated by iran scholar dick_davis . shahnameh is re-emerging in iran as supreme expression of cultural identity transcending all notions of politics or piety .
 intensifying competition between american states and canadian provinces for automotive jobs is helping to stoke two decades of discord between unions that represent workers on each side of border . ontario government discloses package of incentives valued at 500 million canadian dollars -lrb- $ 371 million -rrb- . incentives will be available to companies that invest at least 300 million canadian dollars in new project in ontario , or create or protect more than 300 jobs . several us states have similar programs . there is rising competition for members between united_auto_workers , based in detroit , and its counterpart , canadian auto workers .
 senior kurdish officials in iraq say attacks by ansar_al-sunna and ansar_al-islam , two jihadist groups with close ties , are overshadowing those of nationalist insurgent cells in mosul . say two ansar groups are forging strong ties to network of abu musab_al-zarqawi , jordanian militant who claims responsibility for bombings , beheadings and ambushes that have killed hundreds across iraq .
 op-ed article by rossana_fuentes-berain says free flow of capital and goods in north_america has righfully established itself , but mexico still lacks free flow of workers . says pres bush 's new efforts on immigration reform are first step . wonders why mexico and united_states have worked so hard in past decade on becoming good trading partners and so little on becoming good neighbors .
 eliot spitzer reports raising $ 10.7 million since jan for his new_york_state_gubernatorial campaign , significantly more than all his competitors combined . his democratic rival thomas_r_suozzi raises $ 4 million , while republican candidate john faso takes in in $ 1.5 million . in race for attorney general , andrew_m_cuomo reports raising $ 2.1 million , while his democratic rival mark green raises $ 700,000 . republican candidate_jeanine_f_pirro raises about $ 2.7 million . charlie_king has yet to make his figures public .
 opec seeks to strengthen its grip on world oil markets with announcement of cuts in production , aggressively displaying its desire to maintain oil prices at their highest sustained level in two decades . prices rise in response , up more than 3 percent in new_york , to $ 33.87 per barrel . formal reduction in output by opec , intended to withdraw one million barrels of crude oil per day from market beginning in april , would lower group 's objective to 23.5 million barrels per day . opec members also call for stricter adherence to their own quotas in effort to reduce overproduction by further 1.5 million barrels per day .
 german voters give main opposition party record gains in two closely watched state elections , delivering stinging rebuke to chancellor gerhard_schroder 's social democratic party . conservative christian democratic party wins 48 percent of vote in lower saxony , schroder 's home state , to social democrats ' 33 percent , and win 49 percent in hesse , to social democrats ' 29 percent . vote seen reflecting public disenchantment with schroder 's economic performance , especially his failure to arrest rise in unemployment .
 fox network is having dismal fall season , trailing competition in almost every audience category , even in areas of its traditional strength , like viewers 18 to 34 . overall ratings are down about 9 percent from already depressed levels of 2005 . network 's new programs have gone almost completely unnoticed by viewers , not one of them ranking among top 55 shows in television . network 's fortunes are expected to rise when american idol returns in january , accompanied by another of fox 's powerhouses , hit drama 24 .
 delaware county fair opens in walton , ny , even though flooding in late june destroyed 35 percent of county crops , washed away a quarter of active cropland and damaged 283 of its 600 farms . townspeople lugged rakes , shovels and wheel barrows to clean 65 acre fair site . john w meredith , town supervisor , says fair has to go on to give people hope for the future .
 sen paul_s_sarbanes , democrat of maryland , will not seek re-election in 2006 . his decision opens door to possible run by kweisi_mfume , former democratic congressman who recently resigned as president of national_assn for advancement of colored people . sarbanes , 72 , will be leaving after 30 years in senate . his photo .
 house_committee_on_energy_and_commerce releases second e-mail message by former ubs analyst hoard g capek criticizing company just months after giving its stock highest possible rating . capek resigned after ubs executives discovered first e-mail . former healthsouth executives have been accused of orchestrating accounting fraud . committee is investigating possible fraud and is looking into ubs 's investment banking relationship .
 canadian natural gas production , which has become increasingly important to us over last_two_decades , is not expected to grow in next few years . mark g papa , chairman and chief executive of eog resources , one of few gas producers to increase output from its canadian wells last year , says from now until 2008 the best canadian industry can do will be to keep production flat . says fall of 1 percent to 2 percent over that time is more likely .
 ben_abels , real-estate broker from evanston , ill , is among 20 americans missing and presumed dead in tsunami . his family is one of scores that have spent weeks on computers and cellphones desperate for clues . americans ' erratic travel and communication habits have made tallying true toll of americans elusive , as state_dept tries to unravel many cases with few leads . americans total 37 lost -- 17 bodies have been identified -- as worldwide total rose to 147,000 .
 aaron_peirsol -lrb- us -rrb- wins men 's 200-meter backstroke after technical committee overturns disqualification for allegedly using illegal kick while making turn off wall . markus_rogan -lrb- austria -rrb- wins silver and razvan_ionut_florea -lrb- romania -rrb- wins bronze . michael_phelps -lrb- us -rrb- wins men 's 200 individual medley . ryan_lochte -lrb- us -rrb- wins silver and george_bovell -lrb- trinidad and tobago -rrb- wins bronze . amanda beard -lrb- us -rrb- wins women 's 200 breaststroke . leisel jones -lrb- australia -rrb- wins silver and anne_poleska -lrb- germany -rrb- wins bronze . jodie_henry -lrb- australia -rrb- wins women 's 100 freestyle . inge de bruijn -lrb- netherlands -rrb- wins silver and natalie_coughlin -lrb- us -rrb- wins bronze .
 pentagon announces that human remains unearthed in china last year are those of capt troy_gordon cope , missing american pilot from korean war . cope is first missing american soldier from korean war found in china , where americans have been allowed to search only since last year . quiet searches in north_korea over nearly 10 years have found 220 sets of human remains . roughly 8,100 americans remain missing from korean war .
 25 relatives of people still missing in february 18 subway fire in taegu , south_korea , stage vigil near burned-out underground shell of subway station . many charge government with cover-up . blame officials for ordering hurried cleanup , which destroyed evidence that might have helped to identify victims . encampment serves as reminder that real death toll is probably 50 percent higher than official figure of 198 . 255 riders are still classified as missing . only 56 people out of 198 sets of remains recovered have been identified .
 production of new battlefield meals , which can last three years stored at 80 degrees and 11 years at 60 degrees and are designed to taste more like home cooking , intensifies as war with iraq looms . are successors to soggy c-rations and unheatable meals , despised as unpalatable by troops in 1991 persian gulf war .
 muktar said ibrahim and yasin_hassan_omar , named by british authorities as two of four suspects in failed july 21 bombings on london 's subways and buses , came to britain as children in early 1990 's , refugees from war and famine in east_africa . circumstances of their arrival , as well as disclosures that both received social security benefits and state housing , incense critics of government asylum policy that , many say , has allowed anti-western extremists to proliferate in britain .
 tim clark-carl kay op-ed article says that by naming sir howard_stringer as new chairman sony shows it means to change , even if actual choice of foreigner is neither surprising nor relevant , given that two-thirds of sony 's 150,000 employees are non-japanese . explains that stringer will have to integrate tokyo 's hardware-focused engineering culture with media-driven sensibilities of new_york and los_angeles .
 procter_&_gamble executive doug_mcgraw , in saturday interview column , on hurricane katrina 's impact on company 's folgers and millstone coffee production in new_orleans and how business is doing now . hurricane katrina made mess of company 's coffee business , which got 50 percent of its supply from four sites in new_orleans .
 dr craig_r_smith , chief of cardiothoracic surgery at new_york_presbyterian_hospital , says he was driving to his summer home with his wife when he learned that he would be operating on heart of former pres clinton . at postoperative news conference , smith makes four-hour procedure during which clinton 's chest was split open seem quite ordinary . smith says he performs about 350 operations a year , almost half of them bypasses .
 kitchen and laundry room appliances go against conventional technology wisdom with prices that rose 10 percent in last decade . market analyst npd group calculates average price of washing machines rose 16 percent in past two years . luxury end of market has grown 10 percent per year while rest of market is flat . style and rules regulating energy consumption drive up prices on popular appliances although americans often ignore trend . manufacturers continue to add energy-saving technologies as they become cheaper .
 brad grey , who only recently took charge of paramount pictures , is not wasting time spending money on splashy new projects . grey announced on march 2 , second_day on job , announced that film babel would be distributed by paramount . agreed to pay $ 25 million -- considerable sum for what is described as ` an arty movie ' . spent $ 9 million for john_singleton 's film hustle and flow plus $ 3.5 million for each of singleton 's next two projects . insiders say grey is bidding up prices for other projects , and other studios are paying more than they want to stay competitive .
 office of federal_housing_enterprise_oversight , which regulates fannie_mae , says housing finance company improperly accounted for some of bonds in its $ 1 trillion portfolio . orders fannie_mae to recalculate losses on bonds by may 15 . recalculation could force fannie_mae to restate its profits downward , although oversight office does not order that step .
 heidi_julavits article on how eliot_coleman and his wife , barbara_damrosch , grow completely organic fruits and vegetables through the winter on coast of maine , where there are only about 10 hours of sun a day and temperature can be under 20 degrees for days and even weeks at a time . says their greenhouses require no heat other than sun to keep hardy plants alive .
 gretchen_morgenson column awards this year 's augustus_melmotte memorial prizes , named for charlatan who parades through the way we live now , novel by anthony_trollope . those honored for dubious achievement include franklin_d_raines , former chief executive of fannie_mae , michael_d_eisner , chief executive of disney , and michael_s_ovitz , disney 's former president . new_york atty gen spitzer is honored for uncovering corruption in insurance industry .
 pres bush steps up attack on sen john_kerry during campaign stops in pennsylvania and new_hampshire day after first presidential debate . kerry ridicules bush during stop in florida . democrats are jubilant , citing postdebate polls showing kerry as victor . karl rove 's appearance before press suggests bush campaign is on defensive . democrats hammer away at idea that bush was angry and frustrated during debate . bush seizes on kerry 's use of phrase ` global test ' and insists he will never make defense_of_america subject to veto by other countries .
 voters in 208 of new jersey 's 505 school districts reject proposed budgets and 343 approve them . results around state are mixed , with 80 percent of proposed budgets in essex , morris , mercer and middlesex counties approved compared with less than 50 percent in hunterdon , passaic , camden , burlington and salem counties . district superintendents express dismay at low voter turnout .
 new survey finds financial problems that have always plagued new_york_city 's artists have grown worse since 9/11 attacks . survey conducted by arts coalition downtown nyc , made up of painters , actors and musicians , finds 8 percent of respondents have left city , 5 percent have moved from downtown , and 42 percent say they keep day jobs to pay rent . 13 percent say they are considering abandoning their arts altogether .
 profile of michael_chertoff , pres bush 's choice to succeed tom_ridge as secretary of homeland security . chertoff , who was born nov_28_, 1953 , will give up lifetime appointment as federal appellate judge on united_states_court_of_appeals_for third circuit , which he joined in 2003 after serving as tough-minded prosecutor in charge of justice_department 's criminal division . his supporters see him having demonstrated willingness to use smart , aggressive and creative tactics to meet newly urgent threat of terrorism .
 internet transforms $ 376 billion used car market . almost 30 percent of 42.6 million used cars sold in 2002 were bought using internet . experts says battle among cars.com , ebay , autotrader.com , autobytel.com , carmax.com and others for listings hinges on whose business model best suits dealers ' advertising needs , as well as buyers ' ability to balance price with confidence in transaction .
 lawyer martin_lipton , chairman of new_york_stock_exchange 's legal advisory committee and chief counsel to corporate governance committee , reportedly was also sounding board for richard_a_grasso , who resigned because of controversy over his $ 139.5 million pay package . investor advocates and board members score multiple roles as posing potential conflict of interest . lipton , who defended grasso 's initial plan to take $ 48 milion in future payments , was told by corporate_governance_committee not to stay on their conference call when grasso tendered resignation .
 article on misonix_inc , manufacturer of ultrasonic medical devices based in farmingdale , ny , that has come under attack by hedge fund manager robert_chapman jr . chapman , through his company , chapman_capital_of_el_segundo , calif , has acquired 6.5 percent stake in misonix and is using confrontational tactics in form of letters and internet postings with satanic references in effort to force chief executive michael_mcmanus jr to merge or liquidate company 's assets .
 new yorkers get up early , and some stay out late , to see new_york_yankees ' 2004 opening day game , which is played this year in japan . live telecast from japan starts at 7 am in city . some bars , which can not serve alcohol in city until 8 am , serve breakfast , while other fans watch from home .
 un sec gen kofi_annan meets with pres mahmoud ahmadinejad of iran , who expresses willingness to enter into negotiations on his country 's nuclear program but will not agree to suspending uranium enrichment beforehand , as demanded by security council . ahmadinejad makes general commitment to support security council resolution ending war in lebanon , but no specific pledge to back disarming of hezbollah_militia , which iran helps to finance and arm . will also encourage prisoner exchange between israel , lebanon and hezbollah .
 prime min nuri_kamal_al-maliki ` s office announces hanging of former vice president of iraq_taha_yassin_ramadan for his role in killing of 148 shiites in 1982 . he is highest-ranking person from saddam_hussein 's government to be executed after hussein himself . unlike execution of hussein , which was debacle for iraqi government , ramadan 's hanging is orderly and according to iraqi_high_tribunal 's procedures . on fourth anniversary of start of war there are two car bombs , several assassinations , at least one kidnapping and number of other bombings .
 continental_airlines and northwest_airlines have developed close relationship in era of supposed cutthroat competition among airlines . both carriers entered into marketing alliance three years ago that enables them to book passengers on each other 's flights . passengers , in turn , are able to claim frequent-flier miles and other benefits on either airline . continental 's chief executive gordon_m_bethune and northwest 's chief richard_h_anderson comment .
 universal music group is expected to announce restructuring that will eliminate 11 percent of its work force . 800 jobs will be cut across all univeral music 's division . executives say cuts will eventually save $ 200 million . president zach_horowitz comments . universal music is not included in recent sale of vivendi_universal 's entertainment assets to general_electric_co .
 pres bush 's campaign strategists say they are planning to attack sen john_kerry 's running mate as his second choice because his first choice was sen john_mccain , republican who still stands at bush 's side . effort to turn kerry 's flirtation with mccain against him is part of multipronged stratety to offset what bush campaign assumes will be sharp swing in polls for kerry once he announces his running mate and accepts democratic nomination at national_convention in july . white_house hopes to have president campaign more on positive , forward-looking agenda once republicans convene at end of aug and bush can again command national stage .
 article on renewed plan , delayed for more than 20 years , to build route 92 , 6.5-mile east-west highway in central new jersey that would connect route 1 and turnpike . $ 400 million project , if approved , would become turnpike spur . many environmentalists , told news during breakfast with gov james_mcgreevey , oppose even scaled-back version .
 disclosure that morgan_stanley 's chief executive philip_j_purcell was awarded $ 22 million in total compensation last year highlights questions about his strategy and performance . scott_sipprelle , hedge fund investor and former morgan_stanley employee , who wrote letter to morgan_stanley_board this month proposing firm sell or spin off its lagging units , criticizes purcell 's compensation . says company 's stock fell 4 percent in value last year and yet purcell 's pay was increased by 57 percent .
 one-third of all americans wait until deadline to file income tax returns . 1.2 million more taxpayers than last year waited until final week to file . internal revenue service expects 9.6 million taxpayers to file for extensions . tax accountants say lack of organization is often problem . individuals who take advantage of digital advances such as paperless statements and online filing tend to know less about their finances . tips on preparing throughout year for tax season .
 horacio_silva tribute to designer patrick_kelly , american in paris who called himself ` black lucille_ball ' and charmed fashion world with southern-fried take on continental_glamour . photos . kelly , who died in 1990 at age 35 , is subject of brooklyn museum exhibit this spring -lrb- special sections , fashions of the times -rrb- -lrb- part 2 of 2-part section -rrb- .
 pres bush and his aides insist united_states is committed to diplomatic path in efforts to stop iran 's suspected nuclear weapons program and support for terrorism , but effort is haunted by similar charges made against iraq four years ago . democrats see seizure of iranians in iraq and attempts to starve iran of money to revitalize its oil industry as hallmarks of administration spoiling for fight . some analysts see attempt to divert attention from troubles in iraq . administration insiders fear bush 's credibility has been deeply damaged . bush 's advisors debate how forcefully to push confrontation with iran .
 democratic senators and senate candidates are pressing john_kerry to name sen john_edwards as his running mate , in part because they think edwards would help democrats in five close races in south and give party chance to recapture senate control . say he would also be strong candidate elsewhere in nation . edwards 's supporters include sen john_b_breaux and erskine_bowles , who is running to succeed edwards in north_carolina .
 michael_brand , director of j_paul_getty_museum in los_angeles , says that he will press for return of some ancient artifacts to greece . greece is seeking repatriation of rare gold funerary wreath , tombstone and stone torso of young woman , all acquired by getty in 1990 's . brand says two sides expect ` fruitful cooperation ' that could include use of long-term loans .
 frank rich op-ed column says sec_of_defense_donald_rumsfeld 's likening critics of iraq war to those who tried to appease hitler in 1930 's is preview of ambitious propaganda campaign planned for midterm elections . says rumsfeld himself went to iraq in 1983 to help ease way for diplomatic relations to resume . says rumsfeld is one who suffers from ` moral confusion ' he accuses others of suffering .
 article on westchester golf range in white_plains , ny , which members of family led by louis_vizioli have agreed to sell to garson_development_co for new housing development . vizioli , wife , dolores , sister , sabrina_sarubbi and her husband , peter , will continue to live on property in new homes and range will stay open until construction begins , probably in 14 to 16 months .
 sen john_mccain and pres_bush , in speeches to thousands of soldiers in fort_lewis , wash , present unusual joint defense of war in iraq . call war conflict between good and evil that threatens existence of us . united front of president and his old political nemesis is striking development at time when bush is under political siege for stating that ties between iraq and al_qaeda justified going to war against saddem hussein .
 senate agrees to end debate and press ahead with final vote on construction of 700 miles of fencing along united_states border with mexico to help stem tide of illegal immigration . bill will require construction of two layers of reinforced fencing in stretches of california , arizona , new mexico and texas that are considered among most vulnerable parts of 2,000-mile border with mexico .
 dr john_fogerty , indian_health_service medical officer , is known to navajo in area as uranium doctor . extensive uranium mining in arizona , colorado , new mexico and utah between 1940 and 1980 has created health crisis for those indians who worked mining deadly yellow dust . compensation is being paid to those afflicted , but navajo uranium miners run risk of lung cancer that is 28 times greater than navajos not exposed to uranium . 500 uranium miners died of lung cancer between 1950 and 1990 with hundreds of additional deaths expected . mitchell capitan has founded endaum , eastern_navajo dine against uranium mining . organization is expecting final word soon from nuclear regulatory commission as to future of uranium mining in area .
 three days after riggs national filed lawsuit against pnc_financial_services_group for failing to complete merger , banks announce that they resolved their differences and plan to merge as soon as possible . revised deal calls for pnc to pay about $ 652 million to acquire riggs . pnc originally offered $ 779 million riggs withdraws its suit .
 daimlerchrysler appears close to selling struggling chrysler group to private equity firm cerberus_capital_management , unwinding 1998 merger that was meant to create trans-atlantic automotive powerhouse . cerberus specializes in restructuring troubled companies . prospect of private ownership alarms chrysler 's labor unions , fearful that investor might try to break up company or seek deep cuts in wages and benefits . under terms of deal being discussed , daimlerchrysler would keep 20 percent stake in chrysler and would be freed from $ 20 billion in pension and health care liabilities for chrysler 's current and retired workers . liability would be transferred to new company controlled by cerberus . sale price is not clear . primary value of deal said to be in assumption of chrsyler 's costs . as result , little or no money may change hands in deal . issues still to be settled include amount of investment capital cerberus will inject into new chrysler to finance its operations .
 word for word column on dispute between fox_news ' personality bill_o'reilly and television critic john_doyle of globe and mail , canada 's most influential newspaper . cites excerpts from doyle 's columns poking fun at o'reilly and fox_news and o'reilly 's response on his program o'reilly factor . also cites several e-mail messages from americans attacking or apologizing to doyle .
 new_york international children 's film festival , which has become three-weekend series , will open on march 4 . screenings will include american premieres of millions by british director danny_boyle and steamboy by japanese filmmaker katsuhiro_otomo . bamkids film festival , with more than 50 works from 20 countries , will take place on march 12 and march 13 at brooklyn_academy_of_music .
 article on farmhouse in setauket , ny , dating from 1730 that is owned by pat and john_yarema . house , one of most protected ones on long_island , has convenants attached by society for the preservation of long_island antiquities , which sold it to couple ten years ago . yaremas and society 's executive director robert_mckay comment on efforts to preserve and restore house .
 fbi deputy dir john_s_pistole , day after seven florida men were arrested on terrorism charges , says plot to topple sears_tower in chicago and attack fbi headquarters in miami was more aspirational than operational . atty gen alberto_r_gonzales says authorities chose to head off would-be plot when it was at discussion stage . says men posed no immediate threat . authorities identify narseal_batiste as ringleader of group , and other suspects as burson_augustin , rothschild_augustine , naudimar_herrera , stanley g phanor , patrick_abraham and lyglenson_lemorin .
 looming prospect of war with iraq was remote foreign policy item to people of indianapolis , ind , which calls itself crossroads of america , until pres bush delivered his state of union address . now question has changed from ` if ' to ` when ' . nearly 2,500 local reservists have aleady shipped out , including 650 members of indiana_national_guard 's first battalion , 152d infantry .
 bush administration , in sharp departure from its past insistance on sanctity of medical records , has set forth new , more limited view of privacy rights as it tries to force hospitals and clinics to turn over records of hundreds and perhaps thousands of abortions . justice dept is seeking abortion records from planned parenthood clinics in california , kansas , missouri , pennsylvania , new_york_city and washington state . federal judge_phyllis_j_hamilton denies justice dept demand for access to abortion records from public_hospital in san_francisco and from six planned parenthood affiliates .
 dave_kehr at the movies column : actor and activist woody_harrelson , who is to be presented with 2003 honorary maverick award at woodstock film festival , comments on award and his career . director joseph_sargent comments on making 1974 movie the taking of pelham one_two_three , which is returning for one-week run at film forum . producer donald de line and paramount executive wayne_lewellen comment on decision to rerelease movie the italian job .
 richard_fritzky , writer and former president of meadowlands_chamber_of_commerce in new jersey , survives neisseria_meningitis , usually fatal bacterial infection , after doctors put him in near coma for more than two months . his wife and 12 children rallied by him with prayer and raised money for family through concerts and printing and selling copies of two books fritzky wrote .
 defense min shaul_mofaz says israel is prepared to hand over security control of several west_bank cities to palestinians in next few days . israelis and palestinians have resumed security and diplomatic discussions . they could lead to meeting between prime min ariel_sharon and palestinian leader mahmoud abbas around feb 8 . secretary of state condoleezza_rice 's expected visit to region days earlier could add significance to any top-level israeli-palestinian meeting .
 jonathan_rieder reviews following books : ring out freedom ! : the voice_of_martin_luther_king_jr and the making of the civil rights movement by fredrik_sunnemark . to the mountaintop : martin_luther_king_jr 's sacred mission to save america : 1955-1968 by stuart_burns . and a stone of hope : prophetic religion and the death of jim_crow by david_l_chappell .
 effort to revise new_york 's rockefeller drug laws picks up momentum as gov george_pataki and top legislative leaders search for middle ground . russell_simons , hip-hop businessman , travels to albany to meet with senate leader joseph_bruno and assembly speaker sheldon_silver to press for changes . rally is planned in new_york_city by other members of coalition countdown to fairness , which includes andrew_cuomo .
 profile of and interview with paris_hilton , who says she is ready to leave partying scene and focus on her career . hilton is starring in remake of 1953 film house of wax , has changed publicity firm to dan_klores communications , has parted ways with nicole_richie , co-star in hit fox series the simple life , has started fragrance and makeup lines and has joined forces with fred_khalilian in opening nightclubs , first of which is club paris in orlando , fla .
 stalemate in congress leaves welfare programs around country in limbo . state officials are postponing new investments in child care , expansion of job training and most other intiatives for welfare recipients and low-wage workers . congressional republicans are insisting that stricter work requirements be part of any renewal of 1996 welfare law . democrats say only minor changes are needed . congress has passed seven bills extending program since sept 2002 , when law 's major provisions were scheduled to expire . lawmakers see little chance for approval of long-term reauthorization this year . say that with large budget deficits looming , congress will be under intense pressure in election year to cut the $ 16.5 billion that house and senate tentatively agreed to for main welfare program . impasse is remarkable because lawmakers of both parties describe 1996 law as a success that moved millions of people from welfare to work and cut welfare rolls by 60 percent .
 multimedia event called the new_yorkers , collaboration among artistic directors and composers michael_gordon , david_lang and julia_wolfe and dozen other new_york artists , will be performed at brooklyn_academy_of_music . comic strip artist ben_katchor offers his take on city 's theater district as plays let out . filmmaker bill_morrison and his artist wife laurie_olinder take drive along brooklyn 's flatbush avenue .
 alfredo_anzaldua is american citizens services officier at united_states_consulate in tijuana , mex . millions of americans come to tijuana looking for trouble , and his job is to get them out . lure of tijuana is that drinking age is 18 , prostitution is legal and pharmacies sell prescription pain pills under counter . tijuana 's leaders have issued small phamphlet that appears to have no precedent in annals of mexico , called ` know you rights in tijuana , ' which lists top 10 crimes committed by americans in tijuana as well as helpful telephone numbers .
 mounting pressure from european governments blocks long-awaited overhaul plan for european_aeronautic_defense and space co that is expected to result in thousands of lost jobs at company 's troubled airbus unit . latest standoff comes after politicians in germany , france and britain lobby to preserve jobs in their countries . airbus chief executive louis_gallois stresses need to quickly find solution that overcomes national issues .
 commerce_department reports home construction jumped 14.5 percent to 33-year high last month surprising many analysts because of slowdowns in home sales . jan saw housing starts at annual pace of 2.28 million after drop of 6.9 percent in dec . new construction permits increased 6.8 percent , to 2.2 million , after falling 4.1 percent in dec . housing starts were up 4 percent compared to jan 2005 .
 new_york mayor michael r bloomberg_keeps_red_digital clock in bullpen at city hall that ticks off days , minutes and seconds remaining in his second term . as 1,000-day mark approaches , bloomberg believes it is not time to slown down but time to speed up in order to leave stable and enduring legacy .
 poetry foundation , which received gift of about $ 100 million two years ago , holds gala awards dinner at millennium park in chicago . $ 50,000 neglected master award goes to samuel_menashe , 79 , of new_york , who also receives commitment from library of america to publish volume of his work . $ 25,000 mark twain award for humorous poetry goes to billy_collins . foundation president john_barr says host of projects , including website , are to come .
 group of residents plan to take michael_rice , chief executive of utz_snacks , to court to stop plan to build 14,881-square - foot summer_house on dunes in avalon , nj . in rumson , nj , citibank executive pete_dawkins and his wife , judith , are at odds over plan by neighbor michael_gooch , chief executive of gfi_group , and wife , diane , to demolish pool house and build caretaker 's house .
 toyota motor hopes to expand production of its gasoline-electric hybrid prius cars from niche in marketplace -- 5 percent of american sales now -- to mainstream -- 25 percent of its sales by 2010 . faces variety of major challenges , among them increased competition , new tax rules that favor its american competitors and spreading realization among car buyers that not all hybrids offer big savings on gas . toyota 's goal is to sell million hybrids worldwide , including 600,000 to americans , in next decade . by 2008 , americans can expect to see 10 hybrid models from toyota , but also dozen from such brands as mercury , dodge , chevrolet , nissan and porsche , as those auto makers realize that fuel efficiency may become important marketing tool .
 lower manhattan_development_corp is set to vote on whether to spend $ 44.5 million to acquire last block in expanded world trade center site . site would contain liberty park , which would include new home for st_nicholas_greek_orthodox_church , which was destroyed in sept 11 attacks . milstein family , which owns most of parcel , has not responded to initial offer of $ 30 million .
 senators have been holed up for what they call vote-a-rama , seemingless endless back-to-back votes on budget . annual marathon session stems from 1974 budget act , which limits debate to 50 hours , but not number of amendments . this year 's session ends three minutes before deadline , when senate adopts budget , 56 to 44 , on 80th vote in three days .
 ian_schrager , hotelier , is developing luxury condos on bond street in downtown manhattan in league with highbrow swiss architectural team of herzog_&_de_meuron . condo 's 11-story facade will be made entirely of cast glass with greenish hue . 27 units will include five ` town houses ' or triplex apartments , abovewhich will be 22 loftlike dwellings ranging from one-bedroom to four-bedroom apartments . it will sell for $ 2,800 a swaure foot .
 eric lax book the mold in dr florey 's coat is detailed account of discovery and development of penicillin . penicillin , first observed by dr alexander_fleming in 1928 and later developed by dr howard_florey , sir william_dunn school of pathology at oxford_university director , and colleagues dr ernst chain and dr norman_heatley , is unarguably one of medicine 's greatest achievements . anne_miller was first person to be successfully treated with penicillin in 1942 .
 commercial real estate brokers are optimistic that sales on long_island will continue to increase this year , following pattern of 2003 , when seeral large properties changed hands at significantly rising prices . long island buildings in 2003 containing three million square feet of office space sold for total of $ 470 million -- increase from 2002 , when 1.8 million square feet sold for total of $ 252 million .
 profile of new_york assembly speaker sheldon_silver , one of three most powerful men in albany , who for eight years has been main counterweight to republican governor and republican_senate majority . his negotiating style , which often relies on stalling tactics , is said to be maddening and some blame his intransigence for annual budget gridlock . some democrats complain that he is too focused on increasing assembly majority and not as attentive to dislodging republicans from statehouse and senate .
 pres vicente fox says that if mexico 's supreme court will not hear genocide charges his government has filed against former pres luis echeverria he will propose truth commission to investigate abuses by institutional_revolutionary_party , which used fraud and corruption to rule for more than seven decades . court threw out special prosecutor 's case charging echeverria , two former aides and three generals in deaths of student protesters in 1971 .
 sen john_kerry 's closest advisers include david_thorne , college classmate whose sister was kerry 's first wife , ron_rosenblith , kerry 's political director 20 years ago , michael_whouley , who volunteered for kerry at 23 and is currently democratic party 's pre-eminent field general , and john_marttila , strategist who first worked with kerry in 1970 . they are close-knit group , and all wield wide influence with campaign .
 tom_hayden , who spent much of 1960 's battling against democratic party , speaks at forum in boston , urging antiwar activists and others on the left to work within party . even some former supporters of ralph_nader , including filmmaker michael_moore , are backing sen john_kerry because they are so upset with pres bush . liberal democrats have decended on boston , organizing more than dozen forums to protest bush 's policies .
 op-ed article by dilip_hiro says american position on iran is unyielding and focused on iran 's nuclear weapons programs at expense of almost all else . says this is exactly opposite of attitude america needs to convey . says his journey through iran showed him that public opinion about us is diverse and nuanced . says one way washington might turn iranian minds more in favor of america is to stop constantly threatening tehran and start engaging it in meaningful dialogue . diagram .
 janice_kelly , widow of british arms expert dr david_kelly , says her husband felt betrayed by decision of his defense_ministry bosses to make his name public as source of bbc report saying government inflated case for war against iraq . presumed suicide of kelly and questions raised about whether british were misled about reason for going to war have plunged government of prime min tony_blair into worst crisis of its six years in power .
 pres bush gets friendly reception from panama pres martin_torrijos and cites progress in reaching free-trade agreement there . his friendly reception in panama is in sharp contrast to hostility he encountered during first part of his four-day trip to latin_america . bush says democrats might block trade pact in congress , and blames them for holding up recent trade deals . tours miraflores locks of panama canal and says he backs widening of canal .
 american companies involved in reconstruction projects in iraq often find infrastructure missing or badly impaired , and meet unexpected problems in every sphere of activity because of years of neglect and abuse . scale of project dwarfs anything done previously , including reconstruction of japan after world war ii . united_states has budgeted $ 20 billion since last_winter to rebuild infrastructure , revamp economic , judicial and law enforcement institutions and rebuild iraqi_army .
 violent clashes are reported near southern_iraqi_city_of_najaf , with at least 250 militants killed and american helicopter shot down . iraqi forces backed by american helicopters and tanks battle hundreds of gunmen hiding in nearby village for 15 hours , in one of deadliest battles since american-led invasion four years ago . it is first major fight for iraqi forces in najaf province since taking over control of security there from americans in dec . united states military says bodies of two soldiers aboard helicopter have been recovered . crash , at least third involving american helicopter in iraq over past week , is under investigation . precise affiliation of militants is unclear .
 us signs agreement to protect titanic from admirers and scavengers whose dives are damaging fragile remains of world 's most famous shipwreck . britain was first country to endorse accord . canada , france and possibly russia are expected to follow suit . ship lies in international waters 380 miles off newfoundland . rms titanic_inc , american company , owns salvage rights to wreck .
 debra west cross-westchester column . harry belafonte gives talk honoring memory of martin_luther_king_jr at emelin theater in mamaroneck . heritage new_york , program established by gov george_pataki , is offering $ 1.4 million in grants to preserve sites related to underground railroad , abolitionist activity or slaves ' daily lives . so far , possible safehouse in peekskill is only westchester spot in contention for grant . re-enactor plans to deliver speech made by pres lincoln at peekskill_train_depot . city , which bought old train station last year , plans to create_lincoln_depot_museum .
 takeover of arcelor by mittal_steel claims its first victim in person of arcelor chief executive guy dolle , who used some of toughest language during five months of talks for deal . arcelor 's chairman joseph_kinsch , who is keeping his position in new company , says dolle will stay on until arcelor selects chief executive for new arcelor-mittal . india 's commerce_min_kamal_nath lauds merger .
 american officials say china and us are close to accord to let north_korea regain some of $ 25 million in its funds frozen in banco_delta_asia in macao now that it has agreed to start dismantling its nuclear arms program . issue of funds was major factor in north_korea 's angry boycott of talks last year about its nuclear program . expected return of some frozen funds to north_korea offers striking case study of how us has used its financial laws to extend its reach to foreign banks and isolate country from international_financial_system .
 report on corporate america 's heavy spending on security and anti-terrorism measures , which may total as much as $ 40 - to $ 50-billion a year , two or three times higher than before sept 11 attacks . richard_g_hudak , security specialist and former fbi agent , discusses systems he sets up for companies like loews hotels . gordon_adams , former omb official who now heads security policies program at george_washington_university , says fear is powerful driver for spending , much of which he believes is justified . 3m corp 's security window film , one of many new products , described .
 laurel graeber family fare column discusses works by disney artist mary_blair and screening of alice in wonderland , part of museum of modern art 's film program , at gramercy theater , kids and yiddish : farmisht and far-fetched , folksbiene holiday show at jewish_community_center in manhattan and tim and robin_balster 's children 's magic show at auditorium at equitable_tower .
 new orleans does not have reliable electrical system 10 months after hurricane katrina . hundreds of millions of dollars ' worth of repairs are needed on system devastated by flooding , entergy_new_orleans is in bankruptcy and less than half system 's prestorm customers have returned . entergy wants to increase its rates 25 percent to help pay for part of what it says is $ 718 million in storm losses and revenue shortfalls .
 62 of estimated 140 online pharmacies operating from canada are registered in manitoba , where they are seen as valuable source of jobs and tax revenue . some say rapid growth of industry is responsible for shortage of pharmacists in province . manitoba government official says shortage of pharmacists is caused by wal-mart and other big-box retailers expanding into prescription drug business . as debate intensifies over americans ' access to imported drugs , at least five brand-name manufacturers -- pfizer , glaxosmithkline , wyeth , eli_lilly and astrazeneca -- have moved to protect american market by trying to halt or at least limit supplies to canadian online drugstores .
 republican congressional leaders will seek to declassify past congressional testimony from richard_a_clarke , pres bush 's former counterterrorism chief , in effort to demonstrate that former aide had lied about bush 's record . senate majority leader bill_frist_condemns_clarke for accusing bush administration , in his new book against all enemies : inside the white_house 's war on terror , of ignoring al_qaeda threat before sept 11 . sec of state_colin_l_powell stands behind clarke 's expertise in counterterrorism . frist and clarke photos .
 san_francisco 's beat museum plans to sponsor spring tour of bob_morgan 's alleged debris from soviet_union 's sputnik i satellite in vintage trailer . tour would mark 50th anniversary of sputnik , which was launched oct 4 , 1957 . morgan says his father found 13 pieces of metal and plastic that fell in early morning of dec_8_, 1957 . identity of objects has never been confirmed .
 deadly nighttime ambush of police convoy north of baghdad on april 13 killed nine officers and wounded seven more , but dozens of police officers are still missing and their colleagues fear they have been killed or captured by insurgents . convoy had gone to taji to retrieve 10 vehicles from american base , and was on its way back to najaf .
 hundreds of brazilian farmers are badly hurt by mysterious new crop disease that began ripping through heart of country 's citrus belt in 2001 . disease , being called citrus sudden death , is highly contagious and can kill orange tree within weeks after first symptoms appear . oranges are one of brazil 's biggest breadwinners , providing jobs for 400,000 people and bringing in $ 1.3 billion a year in exports .
 reduction in violent deaths and death by auto accidents in new_york reduces number of organs available for transplanting . 40 percent of dead donors in region are over 50 , as compared to 30 percent nationwide , and 6,000 persons around nation die each year waiting for organs . organs from more than 12,000 people , living or dead , are harvested each year , but 82,000 persons are waiting for them . new yorkers lag behind other regions in donations .
 new product from schick-wilkinson sword poses first-ever credible threat to gillette 's dominance of high-margin razor system business . gillette researchers are working to develop improved product they say will render all other nondisposable razors with disposable blades obsolete , while companies battle in and out of court over schick razor . gillette president edward_f_degraan says gillette 's manufacturing technology gives it competitive edge . schick president joseph_e_lynch says schick 's equipment and processes are equally world class .
 paul_krugman op-ed column says fact that american electoral system worked well enough to register democratic landslide this year does not mean there are not many problems with voting . cites sarasota_county , fla , congressional district where almost 18,000 voters supposedly failed to cast ballots in hotly contested race between christine_jennings and republican vern_buchanan , with buchanan declared winner . notes strong evidence that huge apparent undervote was caused by flaws in touch-screen machines .
 new_york_city council hearing on reconstruction at world_trade_center site hears developer larry a silverstein representative janno_lieber assert that silverstein has resources and commitment to rebuild all office towers at site . lieber says silverstein is willing to sue if port authority of new_york and new jersey tries to prevent him from rebuilding . authority and silverstein are at odds over how much of site silverstein can promptly rebuild . gov george e pataki has set march 15 deadline for silverstein and authority to resolve differences .
 michael_winerip column compares two programs to help spur educational achievement among inner city youths : kauffmann_foundation scholarship program in kansas_city , mo , and dr glenn_langer 's much smaller but more selective program in los_angeles called partnership scholars . says one program can not be said to be more successful than the other because they are really apples and oranges . says most important factor in success is motivation of child and parents .
 drivers are changing their daily driving habits only slightly as gasoline prices top $ 3 per gallon in many parts of country . recent study by university_of_california_prof_christopher_knittel shows every time from november 1975 to november 1980 that gasoline prices went up 20 percent , consumers changed their driving behavior by cutting gas consumption by 6 percent per capita nationwide . drivers reduced consumption just 1 percent from march 2001 to march 2006 when prices rose 20 percent .
 newsday buys out ed_lowe , who worked for newspaper for 40 years and wrote column on long_island for 28 years . lowe , who will continue column at long_island press , deplores newsday 's inflation of circulation figures and layoffs required to make refunds to advertisers . photo . sarah ali writes guide to child-friendly places on long_island .
 goulandris family sells mayflower hotel and adjacent vacant lot on upper_west side for record $ 401 million dollars , more than twice going rate for real estate in manhattan , to joint venture of william_lie_zeckendorf and arthur_zeckendorf , whitehall real estate fund of goldman_sachs , and investment company controlled by eyal_ofer . buyers reportedly plan luxurious residential tower . building taller tower would mean building housing for low-income people at site at 210 west 102nd street .
 latest population trends have forced cities to fight for college-educated 25 - to 34-year-olds , demographic group increasingly viewed as key to economic future . baby boomers are retiring and number of young adults is declining . work force will be losing more than two workers for every one it gains . demographers say cities with strong economies and active cultural lives attract young , educated people . atlanta was among metropolitan areas with fastest growth in college-educated 25 - to 34-year-olds from 1990 to 2000 . other big gainers were san_francisco , denver , portland , ore , and austin , tex . biggest losers included washington , philadelphia , new_york and los_angeles .
 article on metro-north railroad 's problem-plagued new haven line , which serves 35,000-odd riders each day . hundreds of millions of dollars are needed to upgrade line 's aging rail fleet , which lags behind harlem and hudson_lines in replacements . 31 used cars will be phased in by october and seven more by sometime in 2006 , but state funds are scarce .
 former enron chief financial officer andrew_s_fastow testified against his old bosses , jeffrey_k_skilling and kenneth l lay , this past week . fastow has pleaded guilty to conspiracy , admitting to orchestrating myriad schemes to hide enron debt and inflate profit while enriching himself with millions . he will spend 10 years in prison in exchange for helping government . whether or not jury convicts skilling and lay for conspiring to defraud enron , there is little question that fastow betrayed them when he decided to use enron as platform from which to launch his own criminal enterprise , which reaped him over $ 24 million .
 scene in basra , iraq , on election day . majid al-sari of basra , candidate from one of iraq 's smaller parties , expects to win seat in iraq 's first full-term parliament . he is secular shiite belonging to party led by sunni arab . says he faces threats from both sunni insurgents and shadowy shiite militias that wield influence in basra 's police force .
 sec and state regulators file civil lawsuits charging fraud by putnam investments and two former fund managers in allegedly failing to disclose personal trades by managers that harmed public shareholders . putnam , which has $ 272 billion under management and is nation 's fifth-largest fund company , allegedly allowed some big investors to trade rapidly in and out of shares , contrary to its stated policy . expanding probe began last month with single complaint by new_york against one hedge fund . boston-based firm , unit of marsh_&_mclennan , oversees more than 100 mutual funds for more than 12 million shareholders and 401 -lrb- k -rrb- plans . statement denies fraud . two managers , justin_m_scott and omid_kamshad , were dismissed . mass official william_f_galvin explains charges .
 roger_barnett , southern_arizona rancher and prominent border watcher who says he has caught 12,000 illegals , has become prey of immigrant rights groups through lawsuits charging him with harassment and illegal imprisonment . groups trying to curb armed border-monitoring groups have several suits pending and have won judgments in texas and arizona . suit accusing barnett of threatening two mexican-american hunters and three children with assault rifle ends with bisbee jury awarding hunters $ 98,750 . barnett represents special prize to plaintiffs because he is ubiquitous on web sites and mailings and helped inspire groups like minutemen . mark potok of southern_poverty_law_centers , which tracks groups , links barnett family to rise of ` vigilante movement ' .
 steven_c_bartush is arrested in norwalk , conn , on manslaughter charges for not locking up gun when he knew wife was suicidal . joan_bartush shot herself to death in oct 2001 , two days after being released from hospital where personnel had warned him to remove guns to prevent second suicide attempt .
 article discusses godlight theater company production of fahrenheit 451 , based on ray_bradbury novel and best known as 1966 film . discusses artistic director joe_tantalo 's ideas about production which he and bradbury feel is more relevant than ever . presents bradbury 's ideas about origins of novel which he says is based more on destruction of library at alexandria , egypt than on mccarthy era witch hunts .
 ford_motor_co 's new chief executive alan r mulally and mark fields , head of ford 's operations for americas , met last week in tokyo with toyota chairman fujio_cho . talks focused on development of environmentally friendly technology , like hybrid-electric and hydrogen fuel systems , as well as on ways that toyota could help ford improve its manufacturing efficiency . toyota is poised to become world 's biggest auto company in 2007 .
 delphi , auto parts supplier , is prepared to file for bankruptcy within days , as its chief executive of three months , robert_s_miller , has threatened to do unless general_motors , its former parent , and united_automobile_workers_union agree to what would be multibillion-dollar bailout . bankruptcy filing would be painful for gm because it agreed under terms of spinoff to provide medical and pension benefits to delphi retirees if company went bankrupt before 2007 .
 profile of and interview with benny_morris who , in book published earlier this year as well as in israeli newspapers and interviews , defends israel 's attempts to rid country of arabs in 1948 because israel 's existence was threatened . morris , who was reviled as anti-zionist for criticizing israel in 1988 book for forcing arabs to flee during war of independence , now says all palestinians should have been transferred out of israel in 1948 .
 ivy league colleges report receiving more applications this admissions cycle than in any previous year on record , and acceptance rates fall accordingly : to 10.3 percent at stanford , 9 percent at harvard and 8.9 percent at columbia . overall acceptance rate at rest of nation 's 2,500 four-year colleges and universities remains at 70 percent , which has not changed since 1980s .
 article on revival of adelphi_university , which is thriving under leadership of president matthew_goldstein , who took post in 1997 when new_york_state_board_of_regents_dismissed_board_of_trustees and president peter_diamandopoulos . enrollment and applications have nearly doubled , nearly 100 new faculty members have been hired since 2000 , budget reportedly is balanced and alumni giving has increased nearly 400 percent since 2000 .
 five east end towns on long_island -- riverhead , southold , southampton , east_hampton and shelter_island -- were first in state to enact transfer tax for land preservation . 2 percent tax , initiated in 1998 , has brought nearly $ 400 million to community preservation funds , supporting purchase of land or development rights to about 7,500 acres , with more anticipated . voters have approved 10-year extension , keeping tax active until 2030 .
 kuwait 's stock market is soaring . main index has shot up by 26 percent since start of hositilities in iraq , and has nearly doubled since october . kuwaitis have poured as much as 12 billion kuwaiti dinars -lrb- $ 40 billion -rrb- in savings into kuwait stock exchange , whose total market capitalization is about $ 100 billion .
 federal judge_miriam_goldman_cedarbaum refuses to grant new trial for martha_stewart and her former stockbroker peter_e_bacanovic , rejecting arguments that chappell_hartridge , juror in case , was biased and provided false information about his background . stewart faces 10 to 16 months in prison and is scheduled to be sentenced june 17 .
 secretary gen kofi_annan decides to remove most of united_nations ' remaining 86 foreign staff memebers in iraq , making strong statement about magnitude of security problems there . his announcement coincides with death of akila_al-hashimi , member of iraq 's 25-member governing council , who was shot by unidentified gunman five_days_earlier . iraqi and american leaders say hashimi had been force for peace and tolerance .
 tax cuts enacted under pres bush have given some tax relief to wage earners making between $ 50,000 to $ 1 million , but some of those changes are increasing proportion of tax burden they pay while lightening burden of very richest americans . people in bottom 99 percent of income charts will get tax cut smaller than their share of income from 2001 to 2015 , whereas 290,000 americans whose incomes are in top one-tenth of 1 percent will get tax cuts that are about twice their share of national income .
 samuel g freedman column on this year 's conference of middle_east_children_'s_assn , group devoted to education for co-existence between israelis and palestinians . it drew 300 teachers , the israelis meeting in tel_aviv and palestinians in ramallah on west_bank , despite serious obstacles . ghassan abdullah and adina_shapiro , founders , comment .
 article on unsolved murder of mario_vilchis , mexican immigrant who worked at eli 's food market in manhattan who was found shot to death near his home in corona , queens , on may 31_, 2002 . while vilchis 's relatives have not criticized police department 's efforts , they are frustrated over lack of information in case .
 us navy awards boeing co contract to replace fleet of submarine-hunting airplanes from lockheed_martin_corp at potential cost of $ 23 billion . boeing will turn commercial 737 jets into antisubmarine aircraft , which have been called multimission_maritime aircraft . navy is endorsing emerging policy , promoted by boeing , to adapt more commercial products to military use . lockheed , which has had contract for more than 40 years , proposed updating its p-3 orion fleet of submarine hunters , which is now nearly 30 years old .
 eleven letters comment on byron_calame july 2 public editor column agreeing with times decision to publish june 23 article on american effort to track terrorists through belgian financial consortium swift . martin_sattler , tom_johnston , alan daters , mary_mclemore , linda_mcculloch and pat_cooke disagree with decision to publish article . brian_coggins and michael_blatt agree with decision to publish . anne f geisser says that overwhelming e-mail reactions critical of times 's decision were probably organized response and not valid indication of approval or disapproval . scott_weil says bush administration 's response to article 's publication was political . rod_carlson says both publication of article and administration 's response were both political and self-interested .
 three years after rod_paige left his job as houston schools superintendent to become federal secretary of education , his successor kaye_stripling and several of paige 's closest associates are stepping down , some amid questions about how business dealings have been conducted in district . board of education has named abelardo_saavedra to serve as stripling 's interim replacement . he is houston 's first hispanic superintendent .
 dr t douglas_price_of_university_of_wisconsin_leads team of archaeologists studying remains of at least 180 people found in campeche , mexico , burial ground , which was used around 1550 . reports that dental analysis shows that first four skeletons evaluated are west african in origin . says that they represent earliest evidence of african slaves brought to new world . practice of bringing slaves from africa to spanish colonies described .
 nicholas_kulish editorial observer column opposes germany 's decision to tear down berlin 's palace of republic , odd-looking building that was built by east germany in 1976 . says he never met german who moved to berlin because it was imperial capital . holds that it is city 's liveliness and strangeness that attracted them , and part of that was allure of old_east germany in all its splendid ugliness .
 presidential democratic hopeful john_edwards and republican rudolph w giuliani report assets in personal financial disclosure forms released by federal_election_commission . together , they offer glimpse of general affluence of all primary candidates and extreme wealth of several . edwards reports about $ 30 million in assets and giuliani reports more than $ 30 million in net worth . mitt romney expects to report as much as $ 350 million in assets .
 david_gewirtzman , who survived holocaust in poland by hiding with his family under pigsty for 20 months , and jacqueline_murekatete , young tutsi girl who survived attacks in rwanda by rival hutu tribe that killed most of her family in 1994 , talk to groups of young people on long_island about genocide . feel affinity for each other despite huge differences in age , race , religion and culture because of horrors they endured .
 alaska_transportation officials prepare to seek public comment on their latest plan for road leading to juneau , only state capital that can not be reached by car . 65-mile highway , whose cost is estimated at $ 281 million , would run to skagway , city north of juneau that is reachable only by ferry now . road will connect juneau to alaska highway system via canada by 2008 , at earliest . juneau residents have mixed feelings about project .
 serge_weinberg , chief executive of french conglomerate pinault-printemps-redoute , faces intense pressure from investors as he seeks to replace top gucci top executives tom ford and domenico de sole , whose contracts were not renewed . british designer alexander_mcqueen and american designer narciso_rodriguez are rumored to be leading candidates . weinberg is believed to be over his head by some in industry as he attempts to justify company 's $ 8 billion investment in gucci .
 seamless web is site that enables workers in new_york_city to order food from selected restaurants , pay tip and have it delivered with expenses charged to employer . some employers are offering seamless web to workers as perk , and way to keep them working without taking lunch break . seamless web processed $ 81 million in food and other deliveries in 2005 , is projecting 50 percent growth for 2006 and has 1,000 corporate clients in 14 cities .
 state_supreme_court_justice_gerald_p_garson , former brooklyn matrimonial judge , has pleaded not guilty to bribery charges and is awaiting trial . court officials say garson granted over 1,100 divorces in his five years on bench . there has been no wholesale re-examination of garson 's cases . administrative judge_jacqueline_w_silbermann has reopened only three of those cases so far . even in cases that involved garson and paul_siminovsky , lawyer who testified that he paid off garson , rulings have not necessarily been scrutinized or overturned .
 article on arts events and protests in new_york_city scheduled to coincide with republican_national_convention , which runs from august 30 to september 2 at madison_square_garden . dozens of arts organizations are making plans for at least four nights of political theater in east village clubs , theaters , libraries and in streets .
 oracle_corp chief executive lawrence_j_ellison testifies at his company 's antitrust trial that microsoft 's strategy of driving down prices was crucial reason oracle moved to take over peoplesoft_corp . says oracle is continuing to consider three or four other acquisitions , even while its bid for peoplesoft is pending .
 residents of macon , miss , credit prayer vigils for thomas_hamill 's escape from captivity in iraq following weeks of dispiriting news . patriotic displays and honking horns illustrate town 's joy . hamill , milk-truck driver struggling with debt , was lured to iraq by high salary , but was captured and held for 23 days by iraqi insurgents .
 janna_bullock buys vacant lot on east 62nd street for $ 8.3 million , site of destroyed town house owned by dr nicholas_bartha . hotel gansevoort in meatpacking district is creating controversy with plans to put up 75-foot-high steel structure that will hold two large advertising billboards . naomi_campbell sells park avenue apartment for $ 4.5 million .
 americans tell election day pollsters that , even in time of war and economic hardship , they were motivated to vote for pres bush by perceived sense that he shares their moral and traditional values . voters naming moral values as key factor voted 80 percent for bush , while those choosing economic issues preferred john_kerry . white evangelical and born-again christians made up nearly one-quarter of electorate , and bush beat kerry among almost all religious groups , except for jewish voters , three-fourths of whom favored kerry . democrats face special task of reclaiming mostly catholic , blue-collar cultural conservatives brought back to fold by bill_clinton . kerry apparently failed to convince voters iraq war is separate from war on terrorism : 55 percent make that connection . 61 percent of frequent church-goers backed bush , 88 percent of blacks and 53 percent of hispanics voted for kerry . other results noted .
 state sen barack_obama 's unexpectedly strong victory in democratic primary for us_senate in illinois makes him treasured commodity in democratic party nationally , in part because democrats see illinois seat as one they may easily snatch back from republicans in november . party leaders speculate that obama , former civil rights leader who graduated from harvard and is polished orator , might fit into national political scene if he defeats jack_ryan , republican opponent . obama is 42 and son of kenyan father and white american .
 republican party dominates ohio and is blamed for state 's ills . gov bob_taft is unpopular and party organization is riven with in-fighting . sec of state j kenneth_blackwell and house speaker larry_householder , both considered potential gubernatorial candidates in 2006 , are locked in bitter feud . state democrats believe taft 's unpopularity will be asset for them in elections and will keep pres bush from winning ohio .
 pres bush and sen john_kerry have pledged to defeat terrorism with all-volunteer army , but many people across country are wondering who will fight nation 's wars . military , particularly army , has been spread thin by america 's global commitments , and signs of strain are mounting . pentagon officials say new draft could be avoided if recruitment and retention numbers stay high , but as fighting in iraq escalates , signs are growing that those numbers may not be adequate in coming years .
 financier carl_c_icahn offers to buy generic drug maker mylan laboratories for about $ 5.4 billion in effort to force mylan to drop its proposed acquisition of king_pharmaceuticals . icahn -- largest shareholder of mylan , with stake just under 10 percent -- also appears to be trying to put mylan into play , so that perhaps another company will buy it at even higher price .
 heizo_takenaka , japan 's top financial regulator and point man for banking reform in cabinet of prime min junichiro_koizumi is preparing to return to academia as early as september in expectation that he may be forced out of government . takenaka 's departure , which is not certain , would be major blow for those who hope japan can finally overhaul its financial sector and kick-start its sagging economy .
 measure being considered by new_jersey_legislature would , in name of greater security of port of new_york and new jersey , give new jersey control of those harbor pilots it does not regulate and eventually erase all distinctions between two groups . at issue is longtime division of labor in new jersey and new_york waters , in which licensed ` bar ' pilots board inbound vessels at ambrose_light , steer vessels up lower harbor to narrows , then hand off control of vessel to docking pilots . bar pilots are independent contractors regulated by new_jersey_board_of_pilotage commissioners , whose six members are appointed by governor . docking pilots are licensed by coast_guard . bill has support of port authority of new_york and new jersey , but shipping industry figures oppose it , saying bill would establish pilotage monopoly and would increase costs of bringing ships in .
 metropolitan opera offers to sell heavily discounted tickets , in effort to compete for leisure time with increasing array of multimedia offerings and to reach younger , more diverse population . 200 tickets for $ 100 orchestra seats are quickly bought for $ 20 each as part of promotion being underwritten by corporate donors . met will sell 200 seats for every weeknight performance for $ 20 each . new_york_city opera is in its second_season of ` opera-for-all , ' selling every seat in house for $ 25 on eight evenings over course of season . dance and theater companies are also offering special promotions .
 towns in burlington_county , nj , clean up after huge rain that busted dams , flooded streets , destroyed homes and caused evacution of over one thousand people . gov james e mcgreevey says $ 5 million in state aid will be added to any allocated federal funds . says $ 30 million will be added to $ 95 million state bond issue for restoration of state 's dams .
 parliament in belgrade formally consigns name yugoslavia to history books , endorsing constitution of new , less binding union of serbia and montenegro . new state is compromise between independence aspirations of montenegrins and international edict that there be no more redrawing of balkan borders . map . chronology . two states are bound together for three years , which may allow time for reforms that might lead to membership in european_union . shifting of power to republics leaves yugoslav pres vojislav_kostunica as big loser in his interminable power struggle with serb prime min zoran_djindjic .
 sec of state condoleezza_rice , meeting with german chancellor gerhard_schroder in berlin , draws promise from him to do more to help with iraq and endorsement of pres bush 's call for democracy in iran . schroder says he is ready to move beyond debates of past and work together on several matters , particularly israeli-palestinian peace effort . rice confers in london with british prime min tony_blair and seeks to ease concerns that us intends to attack iran . rice and schroder photo .
 researchers at columbia_university hope to clarify whether antidepressant medications lead young people to be suicidal . food and drug administration commissioned study after it rejected analysis of dr andrew_mosholder , its own expert , that supported link . british and american authorities warned in may 2002 against prescribing glaxosmithkline 's drug paxil for children . fda requested study data from makers of eight other antidepressants , but suppressed mosholder 's report in september , prompting outrage from critics and investigation by sen_charles_e_grassley .
 boeing_co 's chief executive harry c stonecipher says $ 20 billion deal with air_force to lease 767 's for use as aerial refueling tankers ` is not dead ' and that air_force remains committed to proposal . says decision on tanker deal is before defense_sec_donald_h_rumsfeld , adding delay in decision has already cost boeing business with australian government , which recently bought aerial tankers from rival airbus instead .
 house speaker nancy_pelosi heads home to washington that is still ringing with complaints from senior bush officials that her stop in damascus to visit with syrian pres bashar al-assad bolstered image of syria at time when us policy is to isolate it . complaints contrast sharply with administration 's silence about recent trip to damascus by republican lawmakers , reps frank_r_wolf , joe_pitts and robert_b_aderholt .
 prosecutors at conspiracy trial of marion_true , former curator at j paul_getty museum in los_angeles , present photographs of pair of ancient marble griffins , one of glories of getty_collection , lying in car trunk , encrusted with grime and wrapped in newspaper , as evidence that they were illegally dug up and removed from italy . italy is demanding that getty return griffins and dozens of other objects from their collection . getty bought griffins from new_york diamond magnate maurice_tempelsman in 1985 in deal totaling $ 6,486,004 .
 homeland security dept plans to require travelers from 27 industrialized nations , including allies like britain , france , germany , spain , japan and australia , to be photographed and electronically fingerprinted when they arrive in us . officials say move is critical security measure intended to protect us from future terrorist attacks . only diplomats and canadians and mexicans carrying border cards will be exempt from new rules , which will go into effect by sept 30 .
 jeff_madrick article on concern that huge budget deficits resulting from open-ended costs of war in iraq and reconstruction will further damage stalled american economy . notes that while pres bush has asked congress for $ 75 billion to finance war-related costs , many observers think that more realistic estimate of combined costs of war and reconstruction will be closer to $ 200 billion . illustrations .
 profile of and interview with stevan_mena , 33 , who grew up in westbury , ny , and who has written , produced and directed horror movie malevolence . film , shot partly on long_island at cost of little over $ 200,000 , premiered in september and has won best feature at 2003 new_york horror film festival and best feature at 2003 long_island international film expo .
 iraqi interim prime min ayad allawi says first charges will be filed in week against former members of saddam_hussein 's government . suicide bomber kills 3 iraqi_national_guardsmen and wounds 12 at entrance to fortified green zone in baghdad . photo . material praising hussein are found in wreckage . eight more bodies are found in mosul , latest of about 150 believed to be murdered police . allawi reports capture of several insurgent figures including hussein cousin izzidin al-majid . new mass grave with 500 bodies is found in sulaimaniya in north .
 aggressive investments by world 's three largest oil producers -- exxon_mobil , royal dutch / shell and bp -- illustrate how chayvo_bay on shore of sakhalin_island is on track to surpass moscow this year as top destination for foreign investment in russia . sakhalin 's mayor igor_p_farkhutdinov says volume of foreign investments is expected to double this year to about $ 1.3 billion . much of oil giants ' work is concentrated on modernizing sakhalin_island 's infrastructure to make it easier to support oil field development to follow .
 purchase prices of high-end high-rise condominium units in new jersey are soaring to record levels . beacon , former jersey city medical center complex , set record for high-rise apartment in jersey city with contract for $ 2.3 million penthouse . two penthouses under construction in w hotel condominium building in hoboken are expected to top jersey city record , with asking prices of $ 4.4 million .
 industry data set for release will show that nintendo , using deep price cuts to spur holiday sales , squeezed back into second place in united_states video game console market behind sony , edging out microsoft 's xbox . nintendo was only console maker to sell more game players in 2003 than in 2002 . overall industry sales , including consoles and software , fell 2.9 percent , to $ 10 billion .
 continental_airlines announces it must cut wages and benefits by $ 500 million a year or it has no prospect of becoming profitable , given industry conditions . says it expects to lose ` hundreds of millions of dollars ' in 2004 on top of previous losses . chairman and chief executive gordon_bethune says airline needs minimum of $ 500 million to survive .
 us atty gen john_ashcroft appears at world economic forum in davos , switzerland , to explain bush administration 's tactics in its campaign against terror . faces barrage of questions in process . kumi_naidoo , head of umbrella_group_of_civil_rights_organizations , takes ashcroft to task over way_america has conducted its antiterror campaign since sept 11 .
 two million slovenians prepare to vote in twin referendums on whether to join nato and european_union . pres janez_drnovsek says it is possible there will be much less support for nato because of war in iraq and widespread identification of united_states with nato . polls suggest that 70 percent to 80 percent of slovenes will vote to join european_union .
 moscow arbitration court rejects yukos bid to delay hearings on $ 3.4 billion tax claim against it and on appeal of ruling that oil giant must pay bill immediately . adjourns before reaching decision on tax_ministry 's request to overturn may ruling to cut original tax claim . hearing , along with opening of separate criminal trial of yukos founder mikhail_b_khodorkovsky , brings government 's legal assault against yukos nearer to climax . yukos shares fall 1.7 percent .
 footlights column : small art deco theater in westchester_county center in white_plains , ny , undergoes $ 150,000 facelift and is renamed little theater . survey by american_music_conference and other organizations lists ossining as one of best 100 communities for music education in america . neuberger museum of art in purchase is offering tour of private art collections and artists ' studios in san_francisco , calif .
 pres bush , who has arrived in brussels on first stop of his european trip , will declare that america supports ` strong europe ' in major speech aimed at opening new era in his relations across atlantic and at soothing allies that opposed him on iraq . he will make clear that us welcomes drive toward european unity and views 25-member european_union as partner , not rival .
 success of spider-man movies lifts fortunes of marvel_enterprises , which owns rights to spider-man character . over last four years , marvel has gone from losing tens of millions of dollars a year to turning profit of $ 152 million on revenue of $ 348 million in 2003 . has also gained unusual clout in hollywood for movie deals featuring its other characters . its share price has been hammered , however , apparently because some analysts and investors worry that marvel will be hard pressed to top spider-man and that after two x-men films , two blade films , hulk , daredevil and the punisher , it has used up its well-known characters .
 signage expands all around retailing base of time_warner_center building at columbus_circle , the latest sign being an enormous new banner that obscures virtually transparent cable-net glass wall framing central atrium and proclaims ` samsung welcomes the olympic flame to new_york ' . kenneth_a_himmel , president and chief executive of related urban development and partner in time_warner_center_project , says that banner reflects unusual circumstances of new_york_city 's pursuit of 2012 olympics and that such displays will be very infrequent .
 in macabre detail , witness tells of murders by detectives . burton_kaplan testifies at racketeering trial of former new_york_city detectives , louis j eppolito and stephen_caracappa , who are accused of taking part in at least eight mob murders . says detectives took part in contract killings of israel greenwald , long_island diamond dealer , edward_lino , gambino family captain , and kidnapping of james_hydell . some crimes were committed for their patron , luchese crime family boss anthony_casso . kaplan says he was liaison between gangsters and lawmen .
 profile of louis_cappelli , developer of $ 325 million city center in white_plains , ny , which includes newly opened 25-story apartment tower , another building with 212 condominiums , several big-box retailers and 15-screen movie theater , for total of 450,000 squre feet of space . notes that he is about to begin work on nearby renaissance square , $ 350 million , 890,000-square - foot complex that includes 174-room hotel , apartments and offices .
 man identified by local media as terry_ratzman , affiliated with living church of god , shoots seven people and then himself with handgun at suburban milwaukee_sheraton hotel where group has met for four or five years . victims are two teenage boys , 72-year-old man and three men and one woman ages 44 to 58 . ratzman , of new_berlin , wis , was computer programmer and enthusiastic gardener and is described as quiet and non-violent .
 stephen a schwarzman and peter_g_peterson , founders of blackstone group that is planning to go public , will receive billions of dollars in offering . schwarzman will cash out maximum of $ 677.2 million , and his remaining 24 percent stake in blackstone will be worth $ 7.7 billion if shares are offered at $ 30 . peterson will put his $ 1.9 billion payoff into charitable trust , but will still control 4 percent of company , worth about $ 1.3 billion .
 david_malagrino and william_long , survivors of devastating fire at station_nightclub in west_warwick , ri , lean on each emotionally while recovering from their agonizing burns at rhode_island hospital in providence . their hands are still thickly bandaged and virtually unusable nearly three weeks after fire , and dr david_t_harrington predicts that they will have fairly normal use of their hands in six months . malagrino and long describe pain of their ordeal , and note support they give each other .
 brookings institution report warns that early suburbs , like nassau and westchester counties in new_york , bergen and hudson counties in new jersey and fairfield_county in connecticut , are faced with problems that demand new solutions and leadership . challenges include concentrations of elderly and immigrants , outmoded housing and commercial buildings . new_york sen hillary_rodham_clinton and rep peter_t_king have called for federal assistance to older suburbs for economic redevelopment .
 michael_jones has spent four decades exploring and excavating long-forgotten system of catacombs used by portland 's prostitutes and drug addicts . is one of unsung eccentrics featured in author chuck_palahniuk 's travel guide fugitives and refugees : a walk in portland , oregon . book highlights all that is grimy and offbeat about portland , city that has changed considerably over the years .
 brooklyn developers mendel_brach and moshe_oknin , under investigation for building and selling luxury condiminiums in bedford stuyvesant after falsely obtaining permits by specifying that units would be reserved for teachers , are now undertaking similar project with same manipulation of zoning approval process in nearby clinton hill . chinese television star yue-sai_kan has put three sutton place town houses on market for $ 42 million . 69 co-op apartments with asking prices of $ 5 million or more were sold in manhattan during first six months of year , for approximate total sales of $ 645.6 million .
 time warner has set aside $ 500 million to pay for potential penalties stemming from government investigation into accounting practices at america online , step that led to 7.8 percent decline in profits in third_quarter . company is awaiting decision from securities_and_exchange_commission and justice_department on way it characterized $ 400 million payment that aol received from bertelsmann , which formerly owned half of aol europe . regulators are looking into whether payment was used improperly as part of effort to inflate growth of aol .
 suicide bomber kills at least 19 and wounds 50 in crowded haifa restaurant , raising specter of harsh reprisal directed against yasir_arafat , and shattering several weeks of relative calm . it is first large attack since israel decided in principle to ` remove ' arafat , even if it meant killing him . israelis carry out series of attacks in gaza , but nothing that represents major escalation . bomber is identified as woman from jenin .
 goldman_sachs_board , which is expected to appoint lloyd_blankfein chief executive , may consider splitting posts filled by henry_paulson . paulson , chief executive and chairman , has been named by pres bush to be next treasury secretary . move would be sharp departure from what is now standard practice on wall street . directors stephen_friedman and lord browne surface as possible candidates for chairmanship .
 exubera , first and so far only commercially available inhaled-insulin diabetes treatment , is on verge of turning into expensive failure for its maker pfizer_inc . exubera receives only about one of every 500 prescriptions for insulin written in us . merck_&_co 's new diabetes drug januvia is already prescribed about 40,000 times per week in us , 25 times as often as pfizer drug . wall street analysts are cutting their sales estimates for exubera , which has been dogged by questions about its safety , cost and convenience . pfizer says it has not given up on exubera and last week started new marketing campaign to persuade doctors to prescribe medicine .
 college tuition has soared past stagnant limits on federal aid , and private loans have become fastest-growing sector of student finance market -- more than tripling over five years to $ 17.3 billion in 2005-06 school year . private loans carry variable interest rates that can reach 20 percent . atty gen andrew_m_cuomo of new_york and congress are investigating how lenders set their rates .
 lower eastside_girls_club of new_york , nonprofit group that provides after-school , weekend and summer programs for neighborhood preteen and teenage girls , is getting permanent home after bouncing among lower east side office sites for nine years and holding activities at more than 20 sites . is in middle of $ 12 million capital drive to build own facilities on city-owned lots , with city expected to make major contribution .
 ouster of home depot chairman-chief executive robert_l_nardelli , former executive at general_electric , raises anew question of whether ge executives are so bankable when they switch to new companies . many management experts say answer is not necessarily . nardelli_joins_lawrence_r_johnston , another high-flying ge executive who left in 2001 for troubled tenure at albertson 's , among alumni who did not live up to expectations . gary c wendt tapped in june 2000 to run conseco_inc after building ge capital services . conseco filed for bankruptcy protection two months after wendt stepped down in october 2002 . jeffrey r immelt started at ge in 1982 . he has sold off lackluster business and prodded managers to focus on ` organic growth ' since taking over as chief executive in 2001 .
 iowa caucus results prompt new hampshire voters to take second look at sen john_kerry and sen john_edwards and reconsider whether front-runner howard_dean is best choice among democrats . many new hampshire voters say kerry 's strong showing in iowa is leading them to believe he could be strongest opponent against pres bush in nov . others say renewed news media coverage of kerry , as well as strong second-place finish by edwards , is causing them to re-evaluate all candidates . new hampshire voters take pride in their independence , but in year when vast majority of democrats there say that defeating bush is their first priority , they seem not to care that iowa has pointed them toward new candidate .
 article on urban nomads , little-known segment of homeless youth who follow warm weather to new_york and select cities across north_america subsisting , with little or no money , on fringes of society . don_des_jarlais , research director at baron_edmond_de_rothschild_chemical_dependency_institute at beth_israel_medical_center , which is conducting survey of urban nomads , estimates that nationally there may be 5,000 to 10,000 urban nomads , 1,000 of whom pass through new_york each year . stories of julie , samantha , shane and others recounted .
 nation 's economic growth is even more torrid in third_quarter than previously estimated . new survey of consumer confidence suggests that growth should remain strong next year . commerce_dept raises its estimate for growth for quarter from annual rate of 7.2 percent -- already fastest rate in nearly two decades -- by full percentage point , to 8.2 percent .
 ben_brantley critic 's notebook column on current london theater season focuses on revival of eugene_o'neill 's mourning becomes electra , martin_mcdonagh 's black comedy the pillowman , nicholas_wright 's adaptation of his dark materials , stephen_poliakoff 's sweet panic , patrick_marber 's after miss julie , choreographer matthew_bourne 's play without words and revival of harold_pinter 's betrayal .
 eight diverse gay couples are plaintiffs in lawsuit challenging decision of massachusetts gov mitt romney to bar out-of-state couples from marrying in massachusetts . second lawsuit is being filed by 12 massachusetts cities and towns , including cambridge , somerville , worcester and provincetown , claiming that state should not prevent them from issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples from out of state . lawsuits challenge romney 's decision to invoke 1913 law that forbids massachusetts to marry a couple if their marriages would be ` void ' in their home state .
 article on protracted battle between local residents and c troiano and sons inc over developer 's new plan to open pit and excavate about 750,000 cubic yards of construction-grade gravel south of beaver_brook , tributary of eight mile river , in lyme , conn . town 's inland_wetlands_conservation_commission , which rejected troiano 's first proposal , is preparing to review new one .
 seymour m hersh reports in the new yorker that defense_sec donald h rumsfeld and under sec stephen a cambone approved use of tougher interrogation techniques in iraq in 2003 to counter growing insurgency . says operation included physical coercion and sexual humiliation . suggests rumsfeld and cambone shifted blame to lower level military officials . says they expanded secret program by bringing covert task force of military and intelligence officers to abu ghraib from afghanistan .
 article on south african concert pianist tessa_uys , who is based in london , and saga of her mother 's gluthner grand piano , built in germany and shipped to south_africa in 1936 . uys has discovered , through family documents , that her mother , born helga_bassel , was jewish , coverted to christianity when hitler came to power in 1933 and fled to south_africa in 1936 , taking piano with her . uys is returning piano to berlin , where it will be housed and used in concerts at jewish museum .
 israeli forces kill four members of hamas , including militant leader , with airstrike in gaza_city shortly after palestinian security commanders there say they have given orders to suppress hamas rocket fire into israel and taken steps to block arms smuggling . palestinians identify one of dead as ahmed shtewe , whom senior israeli security official calls ` chief operations officer ' of hamas who has organized suicide bombings and rocket attacks . palestinian authority officials say israeli offensive is undercutting their crackdown on militants . hundreds of palestinians gather in gaza to chant slogans in opposition to palestinian prime min mahmoud_abbas and his minister of security muhammad_dahlan . hamas identifies other three killed as wahid hamas , ahmad aub helal and muhammad abu lubda .
 most of 150 iraqi exiles selected by defense_department to resuscitate iraq 's moribund ministries and restart basic services espouse liberal , secular ideals that are at odds even with those of many other iraqi exiles as well as powerful forces inside iraq . team 's makeup shows boldness of us plans for iraq as well as risks involved . some iraqi exile leaders says creation of team was too narrow and overly influenced by views of deputy defense sec paul d wolfowitz . profiles of five prominent members of team : emad dhia , munther al-fadhal , muhammad_ali_zainy , khidhir_hamza and sam_kareem .
 bill_keller , op-ed columnist for the new_york_times , is named executive editor . publisher arthur_sulzberger jr makes announcement . keller previously served as managing editor , foreign editor and pulitzer prize-winning foreign correspondent . he succeeds joseph_lelyveld , who retired as executive editor in sept 2001 but stepped back into role temporarily following resignation of howell_raines on june 5 . raines 's departure , along with that of managing editor gerald_boyd , came after disclosure of extensive journalistic fraud and plagiarism by reporter jayson_blair , and after other reporters and editors described to sulzberger their discontent with what they described as raines 's pressure-driven management style . keller , whose appointment is effective july 30 , announces no immediate successor to boyd as managing editor .
 senate republicans unveil $ 386 billion measure that would cut proposed spending for most federal agencies by 1.6 percent and eliminate $ 9.8 billion approved by senate last year for variety of programs . had agreed to cut their spending bills to meet pres bush 's targets . sen ted_stevens takes bill to floor , circumventing committee process because panels are still technically under democratic control . democrats oppose cuts .
 researchers at brigham_and_women_'s_hospital , boston , led by dr atul a gawande report in new_england journal of medicine that leaving objects in patient after surgery is ` uncommon but dangerous error ' that can lead to severe infections , organ damage and even death . estimate sponges or instruments are left behind , despite precautions , at least 1,500 times a year in united_states , where operations exceed 28 million a year .
 article on george washington , former heavyweight boxer who sparred with joe_louis , who died on june 11 at 79 . washington was driving force behind new bed-stuy boxing center in bedford-stuyvesant , brooklyn , which he founded in 1981 . youngsters from neighborhood have been learning about boxing and about life from washington for past_quarter_century .
 federal authorities say that two mob figures , acting on orders from upper echelons of gambino crime family , were in final stages of elaborate plot to kill salvatore_gravano with bomb in arizona in 1999 when he was narrowly saved by being arrested . prosecutors charge one of two men , thomas_carbonaro , soldier in family , in plot . second man has been cooperating .
 bank_of_america_corp announces plan to acquire mbna , country 's third-largest credit card issuer , for $ 35 billion in cash and stock . deal would make bank_of_america largest card issuer , with 20 percent share of market . for mbna , merger offers access to bank_of_america 's coast-to-coast network of branches to attract new customers . under deal , mbna 's chief executive bruce l hammonds will become head of bank_of_america 's credit card operations . bank_of_america is acquiring portfolio made up of lowest-risk borrowers in industry . mbna 's strength is in marketing to affinity groups like professional organizations , whose members typically carry higher balances and pay their bills on time . deal represents bet by bank_of_america that consumer spending will remain robust .
 independent review of new_york_state_health_dept 's $ 50 million program to reduce smoking finds that it has repeatedly failed to spend all money available and has been unable to devise advertising strategy to encourage people not to smoke . report , conducted by rti_international , is three years overdue . it notes that there are roughly 188,000 fewer smokers in new_york in 2004 than there were in 2000 .
 new_york_city mayor michael_r_bloomberg says he has been approached about selling his company bloomberg_lp has decided at this time not to sell company , which some have estimated could be worth as much as $ 12 billion . several private equity firms have informally told wall street bankers of their interest in buying bloomberg_lp in recent months , including blackstone_group and kohlberg_kravis_roberts_&_co . mcgraw-hill and thomson are also said to be prospective suitors .
 federal emergency management agency says new_york_city may be liable for $ 350 million in medical claims filed by workers who cleaned up world trade center site after sept 11 terrorist attack . liability would saddle city with enormous and unexpected financial burden . mayor michael_r_bloomberg says workers , who city believes are covered under federal program funded by president bush 's $ 21.5 billion aid package , should not have to pay their medical bills for heroic response to disaster .
 james traub article contends that even if sen john_kerry is elected president , he will face formidable obstacle in solidly republican house of representatives , which is expected to increase its 22-seat majority . recalls 1994 midterm election in which newt_gingrich led republicans to victory that ended 40 years of democratic_control_of_house . says even though gingrich was eventually ousted , party has redoubled its commitment to his vision of politics as holy war .
 justice_department reaches settlement in civil-fraud-claims suit with money manager mario_gabelli over accusations that he orchestrated scheme to deceive federal_communications_commission in auction of wireless spectrum licenses several years ago . terms of deal in suit brought by russell_taylor 3rd are undisclosed . gabelli will pay government more than $ 100 million .
 john_tierney article notes that political donors were ready to pay handsomely for lunch at mayor_michael_bloomberg_'s_house in honor of two republican congressmen , but then one of them , bob_ney of ohio , voted against bill that would have given new_york bigger share of money from federal antiterrorism program . says bloomberg disinvited him , and fund-raising lunch was canceled .
 novell_corp official acknowledges electronic commerce patents bought in dec at commerce one bankruptcy auction were bought on novell 's behalf . novell agent outbid two intellectual-property venture firms in apparent effort to prevent patent claims against its open-source products . robert_glushko , one of inventors , says three patents cover basic technology of business-to-business electronic commerce . hails novell move , but cites need for patent reform to bar anti-innovative acquisitions of patents .
 article on benedict arnold : a brave revenge , outdoor drama that will be staged in washington park in groton , conn , near where small band of colonial troops led by col william_ledyard was defeated at fort_griswold by arnold 's british forces on september 6_, 1781 . playwright john_basinger and david_holdridge hope to raise funds to build amphitheater that would serve as permanent home for outdoor historic drama in new_england .
 at least six hamas members die in mysterious explosion in gaza_city , hours after israel 's defense min shaul_mofaz vowed retaliation for bombing in gaza that destroyed israeli tank and killed four soldiers . hamas blames israel , but government offers no comment . in nablus , israeli forces kill three palestinians and arrest senior leader of plo . bethlehem mayor hanna_nasser decries israel for plan to annex northern bethlehem to jerusalem to incorporate site referred to as tomb of rachel .
 four western lowland gorillas now residing at national_zoological_gardens_of_south_africa in pretoria are subjects of protracted custody battle involving south_africa , cameroon , nigeria and much of international_wildlife_conservation_community . they were stolen as babies from cameroon , where logging and thriving trade in gorilla meat have sharply reduced their numbers . they were reportedly smuggled to zoo in nigeria , then shipped to zoo in malaysa , then turned over to zoo in south_africa . such deals are barred under convention on international trade in endangered species .
 estonia is ill-equipped to deal with surge in hiv infections . nearly 4,000 of 1.4 million people are known to carry virus as of 2003 . epidemic that began among intravenous drug-users is moving from depressed northern areas to capital tallinn . $ 11 million grant from global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis and malaria will help national_health_institute_establish_aids-prevention_programs .
 innocence project finds that new_york_city has one of worst records in country for finding old evidence when it is sought by people seeking to clear their names . says that 50 percent of cases it has been unable to resolve involved dna evidence that had been lost or destroyed , compared with average 32 percent nationally . city says it stores more than one million pieces of evidence . case of convicted rapist alan_newton , who served 22 years in prison , is cited . dna evidence from 1984 that exonerates him is found in 2005 . other cases noted .
 whippoorwill associates and bay_harbour management , which brought barneys_new_york out of bankruptcy protection in 1999 , are putting retailer up for sale . expect it to go for at least $ 400 million and perhaps even $ 500 million or so . retail insiders say challenge is finding buyer who believes barneys 's potential to grow nationally , in its ability to stay on forward edge of fashion , and in continued escalation of luxury market .
 john a gotti goes on trial for second time on charges stemming from kidnapping and shooting of guardian angel curtis_sliwa in 1992 . defense attorney charles_carnesi says gotti was dutiful son who was pressured by his father to be good mob soldier but who wanted out . prosecutor joon_kim_contends_gotti did not renounce life of his father but was defending its honor when he ordered kidnapping of sliwa for comments he made against senior gotti .
 new_york state atty gen elliot_spitzer says he is suing royal flush bathroom attendants , new_york_city 's largest supplier of bathroom attendants , for $ 4 million . says company , which supplies 70 attendants to 32 restaurants and clubs , generally pays no wages and takes up to 30 percent of attendants ' tips , calling these payments ` lease fees ' . says restaurants usually pay nothing to companies that provide bathroom attendants . urges 32 restaurants and clubs that use royal flush to put attendants on their payroll . says he has reached $ 175,000 back-pay settlement with one such restaurant , tavern on the green .
 patrick_mcgeehan column on florida 's generous homestead exemption , which allows residents to keep their primary residence no matter how much they owe creditors and no matter how many millions of dollars their homes may be worth . notes that john_a_porter , former vice chairman of worldcom , who is more than $ 25 million behind on his federal taxes and whose wife says he owes her $ 5 million , has house in palm_beach_worth over $ 16 million .
 baritone nathan_gunn , soprano christine_goerke , tenor anthony_dean_griffey and soprano anna_netrebko consider question of importance of physical appearance on opera stage . issue was raised last summer when dramatic soprano deborah_voigt , who appears at met this week in tannhauser , was forced out of royal_opera_house production of ariadne auf naxos by director who thought her too heavy to fulfill his concept of role . interviews .
 pres bush and other top american officials have offered little public criticism in two weeks since mikhail_b_khodorkovsky was arrested and his oil company 's assets were impounded in russia , a development that many bush administration officials acknowledge has been extremely worrisome . instead , administration officials say that commerce_sec donald l evans and energy sec spencer_abraham and some others have raised american concerns in private , avoiding any public comments that might anger pres vladimir v putin or jeopardize cooperation on range of issues .
 airbus , for fifth straight year , claims it has booked more orders than rival boeing in 2005 . records show airbus booked 1,055 orders , compared with boeing 's 1,002 but bulk of airbus orders were for smaller single-aisle planes while larger percentage of boeing 's orders were for two-aisle , wide-body jets . while boeing ended up with only 49 percent of market for orders , it had 55 percent of dollar value of market .
 analysis of government data by economic_policy_institute shows average pay of workers at all income levels is falling for first time since 1980 's . finds weekly salary of workers at 90th percentile_of_earners fell 1.4 percent over last year , to $ 1,439 . labor department says inflation-adjusted weekly pay of median worker fell 1.5 percent from early last year to early this year . many companies are turning to pay of employees as they try to stay profitable during economic downturn after more than two years of canceling investments in new equipment and laying off workers . some companies that have frozen or cut wages noted .
 senate adopts unemployment benefits extension as 108th congress convenes , and some partisan debate on measure gives prelude to next two years . 11 new senators and 54 new_house members are sworn in . rep j dennis_hastert is formally elected house speaker over new democratic leader rep nancy_pelosi . he and bill_frist , new republican majority leader in senate , express desire to work with democratic colleagues .
 annual year-end collection of obituaries of notable westchester_county and putnam county residents who died in 2003 : christopher_f_edley , former president of united_negro_college_fund . former actress , model and novelist bonnie_page , who died after being attacked by pit bull . abraham_kaplan , founder of sau-sea foods . former rye neck schools superintendent clayton l akin . longtime cia agent and and rare stamp collector john_boker . football broadcaster and putnam county legislator jim_gordon . musician aaron_bell . former yonkers mayor and state senator john_e_flynn . artist rita_rapaport_wolfe .
 kqed and wnyc , public radio stations in san_francisco and new_york , reportedly reject underwriting credit from new israel fund , international_foundation based in washington , dc , that raises money to support religious tolerance and civil liberties in israel . fund says rejection by kqed was in response to listener complaints about national_public_radio 's news coverage of middle_east . stations say they rejected financial support because it is kind of advocacy advertising they routinely decline .
 mayor michael_r_bloomberg 's plan to ship bulk of city 's residential garbage by barge rather than by truck is praised by several environmentalists and elected officials , but some question whether it is cheapest ahd most efficient approach to handling city 's waste . detailed 20-year plan calls for city to renovate four marine transfer stations in manhattan , brooklyn and queens by end of 2007 at cost of $ 340 million .
 article on sordid legal melodrama involving canadian singer-songwriter leonard_cohen . cohen , 71 , has filed suit against his longtime personal manager , kelley_lynch , accusing her of stealing more than $ 5 million over past dozen years and his former tax lawyer , richard_westin , accusing him of mismanaging money cohen set aside as retirement fund .
 dan_boone campaigns to slow growth of wind-power projects in mountainous terrain of southwest_pennsylvania , western_maryland and west_virginia . 15 projects proposed for region would have up to 1,000 giant turbines lining hilltops , producing on average enough electricity to power 600 homes . boone traverses mid-atlantic , arguing that projects kill birds and bats , are too noisy and inefficient and make no more than symbolic contribution to energy needs .
 okushiri_island in japan is , in theory , one of places best prepared to handle any future tsunami . island was devastated by tsunami in 1993 , after which government spent $ 1.3 billion to rebuild and to construct hugh seawalls running along nine miles of island 's 52-mile perimeter . recent tsunami in southeast_asia raises doubts anew about effectiveness of this approach . misgivings center on seawalls .
 new rules on immigration have sharply reduced number of jews immigrating to germany , ending 15-year policy aimed at rebuilding germany 's jewish population . population rose from 29,000 to more than 200,000 through virtual blanket acceptance of jews from former soviet_union . israel has complained for years that german policy drew away immigrants from israel . jewish community is also concerned about definition of jew .
 thousands attend funeral of new_york_city police officer daniel_enchautegui , shot and killed during off-duty attempt to stop burglary at neighbor 's home . police commissioner raymond w kelly gives eulogy along with mayor_michael_r_bloomberg . burglary suspects steven_armento and lillo_brancato jr remain hospitalized after being hit by return fire from enchautegui . funeral comes just days after that of police officer dillon_stewart , shot and killed while chasing suspect .
 article by rory_stewart , author of forthcoming prince of the marshes : and other occupational hazards of a year in iraq , describes insurgent he came to know while serving as ` senior adviser ' in dhi qar , shia province in southern iraq . man was quite friendly during stewart 's tenure except for three days he directed a mortar and grenade attack on his compound , which he later described as ` nothing personal ' .
 new_york_city police officer dillon_stewart is fatally shot through heart when driver being pursued fires five bullets into patrol car . he is first officer to die in line of duty this year . photo . allan_cameron is tracked down hours later and charged with murder . he is also identified by officer wiener_philippe as man who shot him nov 19 . stewart and partner were following suspect 's car on routine traffic violation in brooklyn when they pulled up alongside vehicle . driver fired , and one of bullets entered stewart 's left armpit just above panels of bullet-resistant vest . officials hail stewart 's valiant pursuit of car even after being shot . doctors are unable to save him in several hours of surgery at kings_county_medical_center .
 market place column on outlook for american_international_group stock in light of aig 's refusal to settle with justice_department_and_securities_and_exchange_commission in case involving transactions aig unit arranged to strengthen appearance of pnc_financial_service group unit 's financial statement . some analysts say aig believes it properly followed accounting rules and may be willing to fight for years to defend its reputation .
 citizen soldiers of 42nd infantry division of national_guard , based in troy , ny , will join fight in iraq , with pentagon assigning them control of four provinces in northern part of country . move is first time in army 's history that unit from national_guard will have direct command over regular army troops . national guard and reserves now comprise nearly 40 percent of all american soldiers in iraq . comments from some troops and family members .
 sen john_kerry begins midwest presidential campaign tour by bus with patriotic paean to heartland and scathing indictment of bush administration for being too willing to settle for modest job growth . holds june job growth numbers are not good enough , rally , cloquet , minn . notes private-sector jobs are still down 1.8 million since pres bush took office . seeks to reach out to small-town and rural america .
 riverhead , ny , area businesses and local police raise concerns over security , communication and transportation problems that might develop around rock music , arts and camping festival scheduled for june 7 and 8 , headlined by radiohead , beastie boys and beck , and bonnaroo ne festival , beginning august 8 and featuring dave_matthews band , at former grumman grounds in calverton , ny . photo .
 lawyers for gregory_ford file affidavits from more than 20 people who say paul_r_shanley , retired priest from archdiocese of boston , sexually abused them when they were children . detail misconduct that spans four decades in all . four of affidavits are provided by men in prison who blame shanley for their drug habits and burglary convictions . ford 's suit accuses archdiocese and its officials of negligence in moving shanley from ministry to ministry though knowing of his pedophilia .
 station plaza , $ 12.5 million first new office building in yonkers , ny , in more than 20 years , is nearing completion near metro-north railroad station . leasing agent for building is royal properties . building is being marketed to financial firms , lawyers , accountants and others who would benefit by being near new_york_city . developer is homes for america holdings .
 lt col robert_waltemeyer politely reads riot act to 30 religious , tribal and community leaders in mosul , iraq , saying that as city 's elders and wise men , they must help restore peace and order . unknown gunmen are still firing on each other and on american forces one day after several hundred american special operations soldiers moved into mosul , northern iraq 's largest city .
 investors bid up stock of oxford_health plans in anticipation of takeover by wellchoice_health_insurance_company . oxford 's shares rise $ 7.65 , or 15 percent , to $ 57.97 . shares of wellchoice , parent of empire blue cross and blue shield , decline 36 cents , to $ 37.09 , indication that its investors would not be vehemently opposed to such acquisition .
 new_york_city historians are largely mystified by origins and survival of annual dance festival , dating to 19th_century and held throughout city 's schools to celebrate arrival of spring . each school selects its own dances for students to perform in schoolyard , from hip-hop to hokey-pokey . chancellor joel_i_klein recounts his dance festival days at ps 151 in woodside , queens .
 tribeca film festival , co-founded by robert_deniro and producer jane_rosenthal last year to rejuvenate lower manhattan after sept 11 attacks , is fledgling event that needs to carve out identity distinct from sundance , toronto and new_york 's other film festivals . this year 's plans include two festivals , one for family films , with special events lasting ten days and spread across lower manhattan . new executive director peter_scarlet explains .
 foolights column : westchester_community_college fine arts gallery will show photographs of audrey topping , who covered world as freelance photojournalist . rye arts center will display artwork by students ranging in age from 3 to 16 . westchester philharmonic awards first prize in maestro 's musical story contest to billy_rohman of larchmont , ny . caramoor 's international music festival will take place in katonah from june through mid-august .
 justice_department and seven states file lawsuit to block oracle 's $ 9.4 billion hostile takeover of peoplesoft_inc . justice_department says deal would violate federal antitrust laws , reduce competition and lead to higher prices for customers . agency joins suit by attorneys general of hawaii , maryland , massachusetts , minnesota , new_york , north_dakota and texas . oracle 's chief executive lawrence_j_ellison says it will fight lawsuit . peoplesoft chief craig a conway says oracle should withdraw its bid .
 new_york_city 's first major snowstorm of year and death of three firefighters in one day put mayor michael_r_bloomberg to the test , one that previous mayors have sometimes failed . bloomberg strives to prove himself an efficient , orderly chief executive . visits families of wounded and dead firefighters , cancelling news conference on snowstorm cleanup and television interview about his accomplishments .
 america 's big three auto makers -- ford_motor , general_motors and chrysler division of daimlerchrysler -- have to lease or buy technology from toyota to manufacture hybrid autos . toyota unveiled gasoline-electric engine in 1995 . executives from companies meet at motor show in tokyo and try to iron out supply problems .
 car bombs explode in baquba and mosul , killing at least 11 iraqis and us soldier . six soldiers from poland , slovakia and latvia are killed trying to defuse mines south of baghdad . occupation forces help free three italians and one pole held hostage . militant group later claims abduction of seven turkish citizens . about 20 foreigners are believed to be hostages in iraq , and kidnappers may be selling them to militants who then sell them to others , making rescues more difficult . wariness and fatigue sets in among iraqis and americans as violence continues and summer heat settles in .
 major league baseball and realnetworks_inc will test popularity of internet broadcasting during 2003 season , when baseball becomes first major sport to broadcast live video feeds online . high-quality video webcasts will cost subscribers $ 6 to $ 10 a month . success of experiment would provide new revenue source for baseball 's team owners and help resurrect realnetworks , struggling provider of webcasting software .
 debra west cross westchester column . jim and lillian_kearns run kearns_deli in larchmont , which caters to early-morning commuting crowd . noah_pesso , who is closing williams bar-b-q on manhattan 's upper_west_side , is opening new gourmet outlet in pleasantville . dan_barber , chef at blue hill at stone barns restaurant in pocantico_hills , which relies on locally grown produce and pasture-fed animals , comments on effects of winter season on his menu .
 article on amendment to zoning code in fort_salonga , ny , that may force_angel 's gate , animal hospice that susan_marino has operated for 13 years , to relocate . town supervisor patrick_vecchio insists no decision has been made on whether to shut down hospice , which cares for more than 200 animals , but town wants it moved from residential to commercial zone .
 san_diego , calif , is reeling from accusations of civic corruption . two city council members , one serving his first official day as acting mayor , resign after being convicted of taking payments from owner of local strip club . federal authorities are investigating possible improprieties in management of city employees ' pension fund . 11 candidates are on ballot for special election to replace dick_murphy , who resigned eight months into his second term , saying city needs fresh start .
 comr nicholas_scoppetta says any firefighter who had sex with woman at firehouse_of_engine_co 75 and ladder co 33 in bronx early on morning of aug 20 will be fired . says any officer supervising at time will be held accountable . officials question 11 firefighters and three fire officers on duty at time . woman claims to have had sex on other occasions with multiple police officers and firefighters . pillowcase that is potentially important piece of evidence is missing . two firefighters have been suspended . nine firefighters and three officers have been reassigned .
